TÍTULO: Bits of Board - Sagrada Review | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: ib0etodHNS0
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/134582/sagrada/bits-of-board-sagrada-review
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
hey everybody and welcome to bits of
border we're talking board games
miniatures cards and dice my name is
Michael and today we're going to be
checking out sagrada now this is one of
my most recent Kickstarter arrivals and
their game all about building beautiful
stained glass windows out of dice what
up and I don't know why I went for it on
Kickstarter it's a strange scene it's
probably not something I've ever thought
of but it was a beautiful looking game
and so simple so anyway so we're going
to be doing a quick unboxing of this one
and then we're going to go through an
example of what you might see in a game
and then we'll come back at the end and
have a chat all about it so let's uh
let's get stuck in all right guys this
is either my best or worst idea in the
world let's unbox sagrada we cared all
right let's have a nice good look at
that front color very pretty all right
let's stop until we got in here got our
rule book here not that many rules I
like that I like that oh man okay so got
a little counter here is very nicely
shiny ooh la la and here we have some of
our windows and these are wow so thick
so luscious this is beautiful Wow all
right look at these colors hey super
nice what else we got we've got a deck
of our window plans here we've got
go on yeah I'm not sure what's going on
here looks like a bag that once
contained some score trackers just alive
that on it all loose pieces which ever
works are there we go have a quite think
of those no let's not really but then
icicle got a little baggie that's cute
with a bigger bag with a very nice print
on there the Sagrada god I ok I was
affecting guy statistics too many died
and we got some other little glass
quickens here what else it up some more
cards we could be the player or the
powers that you can now pick up through
the games are the tools that you can use
and a very nice insert there to keep
everything organized you gotta love it
when everything just fits all right
that's the unboxing let's have a look at
the game ok so here we have our setup to
sagrada as you can see we've got two
player boards each complete with their
own little window design now these are
chosen fairly randomly out of a nice
stack that the game provides here we go
as you can see that I've done all
double-sided all different difficulty
men is a lot to play in there now each
player has got their own secret victory
point earning ability so this is the red
play here looks like they're going to be
going for red dice mainly but the other
player doesn't know that they have green
dice so they're going to be going for
greens and say we'll see how we go what
else we got dumb we've got favor tokens
here now these relate directly to the
difficulty of the chosen window design
so the more of these we've got the more
difficult your your window is going to
be to complete now these tie into some
of the tools that we've got floating
around here because when you're putting
your windows together you've got to
follow a couple of basic rules for
placement you can never have two dice of
the same color or the same value next to
each other sharing an edge and these
kind of allow you to either bro
those rules just a little bit or change
some of the dice positions that are
actually already in your window so every
time you want to use one of those you
take one of your favor tokens plonk it
on one of the tools up there and take
that ability what else we go we've got
our round tracker here there are ten
rounds for each game and finally we've
got some objected to objected cards that
are going to provide ways for players to
gain victory points at the end of the
game now these are shared everyone knows
about these ones as an example of what
we've got going on for every diagonal
line of colors that you've got you're
going to be gaining a point to that so
if this was a window display would be
getting three points for yellow and four
points for blue in the diagonal and here
we've got our column at shaved variety
now shades in this game are represented
by the number on the dice so we're going
for a column shade variety which means
that we want different numbers going in
each line so that's going to be
something players are going to want to
keep in mind and for every pair of three
and four value dice the player is going
to gain a two point so basically we're
going to be shooting for diagonals we're
going to be shooting third threes and
fours and we're going to shoot for
columns that have a different value in
each position rough so that's that sells
set up that's what these players are
going to be going for today and there
yeah so this is a dice trafficking game
so that is a lovely bag here that is
chock-full of dice you can see it as a
couple floating around in there so in a
two-player game we're going to be
grabbing the five dice that is two dice
for each player plus one and we'll show
you what so here is our first draw we've
got five dimes losing them eventually
roll them and let's start picking so the
red player will go first now he's
shooting for some red dice so there's a
couple of good ones there but he's got
some placement rules even in the
beginning you're only allowed to start
on a corner or an edge of space and
then move your dice out from there so
you've got to kind of grow you can't
just go placing them willy-nilly our red
player shooting for those red dice is
going to go for this one here and plunk
that in the corner here so that's his
first move player two going to check
this out we're going for greens over
here we know that so let's no greens of
easily so a bit stuffed but there is a
two down here in this corner and a two
floating around we might might as well
get that out of the way nice and early
now this is quite a good mood because
player doesn't alternate from player 1
player 2 player 1 player 2 players have
actually got a it goes down the line and
then comes back so in a three-player
game it would go player 1 2 3 3 2 1 so
in this case a two-player game the
second player is going to get a second
guy so let's choose our second dice this
one is perfect to this particular this
run so we're going to place that number
3 value there that way the players
starting out to get those threes and
fours and the objectives up there and
you know some good placement back to
player 1 let's see we got not much to
choose from we can't really grab any
yeah we yeah we can't grab the red dice
unfortunately because we can't place
them next to each other here or here and
unfortunately due to the rule here we
can't place our red dice there to start
on our diagonals so we're gonna have to
go that guy's can't go there because
that needs a 1 can't go there because
that needs a green so we are going to
plunk it right down there so as you oh
yeah anyway end of the round now that
both players placed two dice we take the
remaining dice and we chuck it down on
the round tracker there that helps us
keep track of how many rounds were
played in the game and I just think
that's kind of neat anyway players will
continue running die so let's go for our
second round five more dice from the bag
roll them player two will draw this time
let's see how we go so we've got a two
here and the player could you know
that's a green spot there but because of
this global rule here we're going to
shade shade variety
we've already got a two floating down
here so that is not the best placement
to go for here let's see what else we
got we could too yeah so we might go to
that diagonal Chuck that one in over
here shooting up the diagonals hoping it
to get a yellow five later on the game
back to player 1 what do we got not too
much not much still let's grab that to
pop it there grow a new one so we need a
four let's check that one there back to
play out two and roe on so this this
continues the game is actually pretty
quick at the beginning when you've got
heaps of placement options not so many
rules to keep in mind but as your board
fills up life gets hard because you're
going to be rolling stuff that might
potentially not fit anywhere on your
board in which case you're not going to
get a full window come the end of the
game for every dice space that is not
filled in at the end of the game you
lose one point so players are going to
want to place well play smart and
hopefully match up as cut as many of
these global rules global objectives as
possible while still keeping in mind
they are their personal objective oh so
that's how you played again is a lot to
think about a lot of a lot of placement
options and yeah it just becomes a bit
of a brain melter towards the end let's
just have a quick look at what this game
might have looked like at the end of the
round
alright let's go ahead and show off one
of these tools up here so each one of
these tools and they're randomly
selected from a small deck these guys
let's see if I can just get them out to
show you so here are this is the deck
here so as you can save plenty of
different rules that you can use to
break the game to help you make you a
window but these are the three that
we've been dealt out today I'm just
going to give you an example of how to
use them so we've got this one over here
this is a running pliers says after your
first turn immediately drafted ice and
then skip your next turn this around
what this means is I'm allowed to place
my dice like here and then place this
favor taken over here to immediately
take my second pick now it's always a
good idea to save these for really
awesome roles that come out but just to
show you what it's all like I'm going to
use it to take this three pop it here
it's not breaking any rules and it's not
going to you know you have a short
coming later on so let's go with that
onward with the game
alright so now this here would be a much
better opportunity to use this power so
let's go ahead Chuck that five up there
as part of my standard draft use that
favor token for player 2 and we will pop
this one down here so this is really
leading me up for another diagonal
placement pretty nice to ask me let's
continue on here we go for another tool
use we're going to use the glazing
hammer up here which allows you to
reroll all the dice in the draft pool
and it can only be used on your second
turn before drafting so that's this
current turn I'm going to play that now
we grab the dice now the reason I'm
doing this is because I want I want a
five and it's it's not going to work I
want a one there we go so I want a one
in there and you know this is probably
the best opportunity for me to roll I
think I'll have a one in six chance
times too so hopefully let's work this
out nap crap roll all right now we just
roll with it so here we've got a perfect
opportunity to use the glazing hammer
for player 2 right now we've got two
blue dice that can't really go anywhere
we can't put in this green spot over
here we can't put it in this four spot
because there are no 4 is there up here
we can't place it because there's a blue
next to it hell we can't even play
severe if we tried the only placement
location for these dice is over here and
I can't have a two or a three and you
know what that's what I rolled so let's
play this grab one of our favorite
tokens chuck it down and go to the
reroll yes we did it guys so let's go
Chuck that five in this blue spot here
and we're still in the game
[Music]
all right here we have the final role
for the ground and we've got some
problems going on so let's check it out
player 2 is going up first and the only
two spots we've got left I here and here
one of them has to be a green dice so
here is our only rolled green dice and
it can't be placed because of that for
their that is such a shame so it looks
like player 2 is just not going to be
able to finish it there window the best
I think we can do for them is grab this
no we can't even put that one down to
make that diagonal let's keep looking
we've got the fire alright so player 2
is going to grab it this five chuck it
in this spot up here is just to gain a
little bit more for the diagonal but
that's about the most they can hope for
over to player 1 and we've got yeah
we've got some issues so they'll start
off by playing the safe bet here
grabbing this yellow number one popping
it there that is a perfect role for them
because it allows them to keep the
diagonal as well as taking a very
difficult placement spot now we've got
to our oh man so player 1 is basically
going to have to take this 3 pop it in
there even though it completely ruins
their column shade variety they might
make up for it in points for the three
for medium shade bonus as well so that's
pretty much game there goes back to
player 2 they've got no more favor
tokens to reroll they can't take the
dice so we just grab one of them chuck
it in that tent marker and it's done so
let's look at how we score this one we
flip our round marker over to reveal
this beautifully colored a point token
that track up we will also grab our
point tokens here we flip them over to
the non 50 side just because we're
probably not going to be getting 50
points in this way
so first off we do the public objectives
which are these ones here let's start
with our threes and fours so we're
looking for pairs of threes and fours so
the easiest way to do this one is to go
through and count the number of fours
and three so we've got one for two for
three fours nice so we can get a total
of three pairs here let's have a look at
our threes one two and three beautiful
so we've gotten three pairs of medium
shades to display here gaining us six
points so let's pop that marker down
there on the six and we'll go over to
player 2 beautiful so we've got our
three chairs there as well so they are
equal on 6 that is our first public
objective it done let's have a look at
that column shade variety play one over
here for 615 perfect 1523 perfect five
are stuffed it here we've got 25 so
we're not going to get the cone shade
variety there but let's move on three is
we're not going to get them here either
but that last one we will so we're going
to get three columns at four points each
which is 12 more points for a play here
bring us to 18 a nice jump let's go to
player 2 on 2 22 points that is a very
nice the player too let's check out our
diagonals it so basically here we're
just counting at diagonal dice and play
one that did appallingly except this
little yellow picky or something like
that so again 11 points there hopefully
I've added that up right so we are going
up to 29 points very nice let's go to
play a to now
so 12 points for player 2 they're
bringing them up to 34 still in the lead
all right so that's all the public
objectives that done that let's go for
the private objectives I'm pretty sure
we both did shockingly they're mainly
because I forgot about this one for this
player here oh let's go for player one
first so we pretty much add up the value
of chits on each die so red has
completely smashed it here with 11 12 13
and 14 not bad at all so let's go to the
43 points there and blue I'm at our
player to hear I am so sorry i only get
four points 23 or shocking oh so it pays
to take attention to those ones that's
for sure all right now we count up how
many unspent favor tokens we've got um
not so many there guys but no players
have got any favor tokens because yeah
let's just go on to spend each year and
finally each player will lose one
victory point for each space not covered
so our player 2 goes back a notch and
that is game so red smashed it sorry
read it did better than blue certainly
did not smash it that was a horribly
played game by me but pretty quick too
so that is let's just have a nice closer
look at these ones because they are just
pretty as guys there it is that's how
you play so let's have a bit of a chat
about it let's still pros and cons thing
I like that cons sagrada is a very lucky
game in fact the entire play can be made
or broke your window could be made or
broken on a single roll of dice even
with it really good planning I don't
think there's a way to mitigate all of
that so it can't be a purely strategic
game now the tools they certainly help
to mitigate those like factors but they
don't always work out you
or in the example game there I could
talk about scene being a negative but
this the thin really okay this is where
we're shifting into the good stuff such
a theme really does accommodate what
could have been a bland abstract game
that still would have been an awesome
game for the the thinker's out there but
as soon as you put on a beautiful theme
like Duke stained-glass windows you
attract the attention of so many more
people that would just normally dismiss
an abstract like this so art production
all that stuff that this game looks
beautiful on the table if you've got
more than a couple of people going on
it's just the color spreads and spreads
and it's fantastic now as far as target
audience goes I reckon this game hits
everybody it is suitable for beginners
all the way up to those high sinkers out
there that need that strategic punch in
the face because this game gets there
you can sit down with the beginner
explain the rules be ready to go in a
couple of minutes no worries you might
come to a little bit of trouble towards
the end but that's just the fun of
learning a new system like this one
simple to play impossible for master
this is one of those perfect
combinations so if you've not got
anything like this in the collection
grab it so that's about it guys this is
a fantastic combination of luck strategy
and beautiful theme are all rolled into
one for me if there's nothing quite like
it around and it is one of those rare
games that can sneak in as a filler and
end up being just one of the mind
melters of the evening so if you've got
any questions chuck them down in the
comments below and i'll get back to you
if you want to see anything up close I
think you pretty much saw everything to
do with that game anyway so um we are
about done thank you very much for
watching guys as always my name is
Michael this is bits aboard we'll catch
you next time
[Music]
