TÍTULO: Boardgame Opinions: Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: aoW-Ow3xkZc
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/154412/sagrada/boardgame-opinions-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hi my name is Jennifer nix I'm back at
the ice cup for this evening I'm joined
by Matt and we've just finished playing
sagrada now i think this is named after
these sagrada família some church in
spain and your building sort of
stained-glass windows within the church
you're picking from a selection of dice
each turn and you've got to put them in
here to make nice colorful displays you
can see there's a complete one that
Steve's at the end of the previous game
but you're trying to do them in certain
ways kind of rules about what numbers
for instance you can only put 5s on the
five spots only blue dice will go on the
blue starts why it will take anything
which is quite handy in terms of how you
get points though because at the end of
the game you're going to score depending
on how well you fill this you have a
secret objective so in this case we're
trying to get as many blue dice as I
could so these are quite good in fact
you this little thing at the start here
slides out so you actually get a choice
of which starting grid you want so I
might look at this and go oh yes I need
blues so I'm gonna pick one's got lots
of Blues in but then each time we've
sort of each round the first player will
roll some dice and you pick one so I
might pick this five and to start with
it has to go on the edge so I could put
that there and then everyone else goes
round and they pick a dice and the last
person picks two dice and it comes all
the way back round to me if I was first
player so at this point I'm looking for
blue dice that there aren't any blue
dice I'll just take this red - now you
can't put numbers next to each other and
you can't put colors next to each other
so I couldn't put yellow next to this
one and I couldn't about a 5 next to
this one even if it would be sort of
legally allowed here so this red to
those fine I'm gonna put this here cuz
now it gives me more options for where I
can place dice they've got to be
adjacent to the previous ones you've
placed so that's that I mean there's an
awful lot of restrictions in this game
in terms of what colors get an extra -
what numbers the actual spaces on here
being connected so you've really got to
think each time now if you find you sort
of end up looking at the ice and going I
just can't place anything so also these
special abilities that you're looking
for here so in this game this gives you
an option to reroll the dice this one
lets you flip the dice you've just
picked onto his opposite side and this
one lets you place the dice that's not
adjacent in order to use these though
you've got to spend these sort of joules
you start with a certain number of them
and you kind of spend them as you go
the game and then finally in terms of
scoring as well as getting points for
the number of pips on blue dye so I'd
add up all the pips on all my blue dice
in this game and it's variable each time
we were getting points for having
different numbers in each column so you
can't have the same number in a column
pairs of five and sixes and then
different colors in each column
but these as I say a difference who does
that variety each time you play but as
the most points at the end of the winner
what do you think this is a lovely
implementation around some of blueprints
which is another game I like about you
trying to hope that certain colored dice
of the right numbers courts that you can
fit when you go very well
like Johnson said the so many
restrictions the adjacency restrictions
then color restrictions the restriction
is you've got on your own board you can
place diagonally adjacent to when you're
filling your border but with all those
other restrictions and then the point
scoring restrictions as well so not
really enough it it on oh it's something
US government anything or whatever you
know you need lose points of you I've no
holes at the end but trying to fill
those as well so the very first game I
played I fill my board but I didn't
focus on the points I didn't focus on
what actually got me points and that
extra restriction just kind of goes whoa
and yeah it's really nice and you kind
of draft them clockwise anti-clockwise
whoever gets the first pick gets the
last book so sometimes the first big
really imp you definitely get dice
you've been hoping for sometimes the
Lustig's awful because you have to use
some of the jewels you can equip it
around yeah it's really good game I like
a map yeah
again really nice game with the drafting
thing there's a bit of trying to work
out what your opponent's gonna do as
well
if you've gone early you can go well
there's that one that I could play or
that other one that I could play let's
see is anyone else gonna pick those no I
think they're say I'll leave that and
take this other one that I don't need as
much but I'm pretty sure that one's
drinking back
so yeah this
a little bit of kind of psychology in
trying to predict your opponent's moves
as well yeah the whole so many things to
think about about what I can place what
I'm trying to place and not just what
you're placing right now it's going to
allow you to place later so if you have
a square that needs to be yellow you've
got to make sure you know anything
yellow next to it and things like that
so you if you're trying to put different
values in a column you don't want to put
five and a six in that column if you're
if they're not the colors that you score
in the faces aisle because ideally you
want to if you're scoring and I was
growing red if I if I put a blue 5 and a
yellow 6 then it's like a red in that
column it's going to be a forward-most
so that's not going to be as good if I
want to stick either number so yeah all
those kind of things just makes it so
much to think about and it's really good
ok Steve this is a lovely you know
personal game versus a game that I've
wanted for ages this is actually my copy
that I bought myself
my first day so November the 10th
sending out birthday messages that would
be awesome
I think everything that leads to sounds
on me have been said already made by
Steve he's got a really good grasp on
this really nothing much more really
really famous actually a Kickstarter
game which unfortunately missed out on
but God that I that I've been able to
rating outer I'd say it's a solid eight
okay Mac yeah okay the component quality
is great and the game is really well
designed it is a really good game
personally though is brain strain the
whole time I'm thinking I can't put this
there but that's got to go there and I
rather actually followed mass
description earlier but it really feel
that the hallway to I'm gonna do this
with this and I can't do that with that
and I found it just s for all the way
through it's definitely what its gonna
benefit from replay and some people are
gonna love this game he's a really good
game but it was just too much for me I
think I'd be on a six and a half but not
because it's a bad game I just had that
feeling of the the tension all the way
through that was a bit too much for me
personally alright thanks for watching
that was Sagrada
[Music]
