TÍTULO: Board to Death Video (6 min.) | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: PvU9SuWU02I
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/136132/sagrada/board-to-death-video-6-min
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hi everybody welcome to another episode
of bored to death Felicia can be here
today so I will be flying solo for now
she will be back though uh this is our
review of
Sagrada players take on the role of
artists creating the most beautiful
stained glass window in sagata at the
end of the 10th round the player with
the most points wins the game here is
set for three players each player will
start with a window frame and the
matching score tracker Shuffle the
private objective cards and deal one to
each player then Shuffle the window
pattern cards and deal two to each
player they'll choose one of them by
looking at both sides and place the
chosen one into their window frame the
bottom will show you the difficulty
level the more dots you have the harder
each player will then receive favor
tokens equal to those dots place the
score track on the opposite side to the
round track Shuffle the public objective
cards and reveal three do the same for
the tool cards all the dice go in the
bag determine a first player and you're
ready to play the first player on each
round will draw a number of dice equal
to two per player plus one in this case
seven and roll them she'll draft or take
a die and place it on her board now
there are a couple of rules to follow on
the first round the die must be placed
on a side or Corner space then these
rules will apply you must always place a
die adjacent to one you already placed
diagonally included now orthogonally you
cannot place the same color or number as
the one there diagonally this rule does
not apply next each space might require
you to have to play color or shade the
number as specified this is quite easy
at the beginning but in later rounds
becomes hard hard to do once the first
player drafted a die the next player in
clockwise order does the same and so
forth except the last player will do two
consecutive turns he'll draft a die
place it then takes another turn then
play proceeds counterclockwise until we
reach the first player again will she'll
draft a second die it is possible
especially at the end game where you
cannot draft the dock because you can't
place it due to restrictions in this
case you can simply not draft a die but
be aware that as soon as you do this you
won't be able to complete your window as
the spaces are counted exactly for you
to take two diap per round when everyone
drafted two dice there will be one or
more dice remaining in the draft pool
take one and place it on the current
round space placing any extra on top
then the player on the left of the first
will become first player for the next
round we personally use the master AR
Artisan card to denote the change on
your turn sometimes specified by the
tool cards in terms of either after or
before you may want to use the available
Community tools to do so you'll need to
spend your favor tokens if it's the
first time a tool card is being used
meaning there are no favor tokens on it
you'll need to spend one by placing it
on the card to use the Ability if there
are already favor tokens on it you'll
need to spend two now consider using
these tools carefully as each favor
token will be worth one point at the end
of the game
scoring speaking of endgame scoring
besides your private go card keep in
mind the public go cards as well these
can be row or columns related
positioning sets repetition or lack of
etc etc at the end of the 10th round
players will count their points remove
the dice from the round tracker and flip
it over first count the shade total of
your private objective and place your
score track on the corresponding space
then check for each public objective
cards you'll gain this amount of points
per objective on the cards so yes it's
possible to gain
multiples then count one point for favor
token remaining flip the token to the 50
side if going over lastly any empty
space not filled will Garen you a minus
onepoint penalty total all these up and
the player with the most points wins
sagata is an excellent game that is
quite addictive especially since the
games are just the right length as you
can see the artwork is stunning and
iconography is spoton and the sturdy
components from the player boards to
even the Box insert complement the
artwork I love how anyone can pick up
this game fairly quickly yet it has some
depth to it making it accessible to all
Gamers what's great for competitive
players is how you can affect both
players to your left and right as the
draft goes clockwise wi and
counterclockwise however there's no real
way of affecting the fourth player out
of your reach but this is a very very
small con for only a half a point
penalty luck is extremely well handled
and there are many mitigation tools
literally and with so much variety
between them and the public goals and
the solo mode replay value is definitely
a pro on this one now speaking of
balance and the tools we did find that
there is a little error in the final
score T an empty space will only incur
you a minus one penalty so sometimes not
using two favor tokens to finish off
your window might be to your advantage
especially if it won't complete either
of your private or public goal and why
lose two points when you can only lose
one we felt at least a minus two penalty
per space at the minimum was needed but
again this was rectifiable and it's just
a preference on our part so I'm only
giving it a half Point penalty in the
end the cons being so small and the game
being a genuine work of art we give
sigada a whopping nine out of
10 subscribe now to our channel to stay
in the loop if you like our work help us
continue by sharing the channel to your
gaming group thanks for watching and
happy gaming
[Music]
