TÍTULO: Bryan Drake @TheLatestRetro reviews Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: M86_eIRB0MI
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/136222/sagrada/bryan-drake-at-thelatestretro-reviews-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
[Applause]
here we go
so I'm old enough to remember when this
was used as a marketing technique
remember this inside of here is three
servings of vegetables the kids will
never know that they're eating it right
famous works really well sneak your kids
in vegetables
sneaking stuff in places to make it more
palatable is an interesting technique
just leave this to what we're talking
about today sneaking things in now
that's an interesting topic right
because it seems like a bad connotation
but no no this is a positive thing and
this is a game I absolutely want to talk
about Sagrada about floodgate games now
as you know if you've seen the last
videos I'm moving that's why I'm up here
at the church shooting these which is
also appropriate because Sagrada is
about building stained-glass windows in
the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona Spain
or is it that's the interesting question
we're going to talk about today looking
at Sagrada so I'm going to take a look
at this thing and see are you really
building windows or are you really not
all lined up
[Music]
let's talk pretty games first of all
sagrada my floodgate this is a beautiful
looking game look at the cover here
right just one of those show-stopping
games that people walking past and
conventions and saying what is that I
gotta know what this is the whole thing
about me talking about sneaking stuff in
though is here's the deal a little bit
of history bub I hate abstract games
absolutely hate them it's probably not
the game's fault it's more the games
mechanics fault and there's no theme
right and here's what I mean with this
you're going to say Brian this is an
abstract day and it has a theme clearly
you're building stained-glass windows I
get it but the mechanics of this game to
me feel like something out of an
abstract game if you strip the theme off
this and said hey match these dice to
these places on your board you would
still have the same game but this seems
something about this theme makes it so
pretty
then makes it work let's look at what
I'm talking about when I say this game
is pretty because sagrada is a beautiful
game i think i've said that already but
let's look at what comes in this box the
components and see why this is one of
the prettiest games of the year right
now I mean right I told you look at this
thing look at these thick cardboard
things everybody gets one of these
Cathedral looking window panes right
here gorgeous thick extra actually
thanks why are they said thing why is it
important well first of all chunky
components means something to me they
matter then look at these beautiful
translucent dice there's 90 something
translucent icing here what do you need
to die score well everybody's placard
here their window you'll notice has a
little window pane in it four different
pieces of glass to make a mosaic much
like the Sagrada família in fact they're
all named all of these cards are names
everyone's beginning of the game they'll
get one of these cards with the
different stained glass things now I'm
not a hundred shirts with enough you
know an expert on this but I'm pretty
sure these are probably named after
actual stained-glass windows in the
cathedral like the Lewis celestial and
the full Goethe Chilika cello I don't
speak Spanish so that's really tough but
these are beautiful and you slide yours
in here and it has a template for
different things so for instance this
one you slide it in here this is the
shadow thief a shadow case right
this is the Sun catcher on the back they
all have different layouts some of them
are easier some of them are more
difficult what does that matter
what you get to pick do you want the
easy side with a hard side and it gives
you more of these little tokens we'll
talk about in a minute the whole point
of the game is these you're going to
draft out two guys / you're going to
pull two dice out per person plus one
and again each round they're ten rounds
so the round tracker that also doubles
with the score tracker on the back and
say while we're down the back I'll tell
you so in a two-person game you're going
to pull out five dice an A you can do
the math knowledge keep going up so
friends in a two-person game you can
pull out five dice first player will go
first
and then a snake draft so first player
you fix let's say I want these four here
first dice has to go on the outside edge
and everything has to be built adjacent
to it that makes it difficult this game
is not easy so this guy's can go there
there are a few placement rules and I'll
explain those right now and we'll come
back and finish this snake drafting
round first things first I'll put one to
the sides we can kind of see a one man
in the pain and one in the paints we can
kind of put the dice on to see so
starting blank let's just say these are
the first five dots drawn out for the
round you draw them out of a your roll
so you would have two on the spaces with
the color on in place that color on the
spaces with a number you have to place
that number here's where it gets tricky
though you cannot have two of the same
color or the same number adjacent
orthogonal which so up down left and
right diagonally no problem in fact this
one requires you to do that but let's
just say your first dice is this you put
a six here well or let's say you put up
yeah let's see for the six here you then
are now boxed out from putting a six on
these three squares there are times when
at the beginning you name you think I'll
just put a dice here no big deal we'll
go from there and roll out with it and
then it gets really difficult because
you accidentally put the wrong dice
there you're not thinking or the dice
that you need has been
taken so you're stuck getting some other
dice you can't play a dice you just
passed and the dice that are unused go
up here for some games that have tool
cards I'll explain there's a minute
where you can pull these back off of
there now
you snake drafts around you place the
die saw at the end of the game just
score let's look at what some of the
scoring is right now first scoring
mechanic and this is easiest to explain
as everyone starts the game with one of
these five secret agenda scoring cards
and by secret agenda just means that no
one else knows what yours is for
instance they're all the same except
they change in color for this one let's
just say this person had the blue card
ax to shade the blue private sums of
values on the blue dice this is how you
get a lot of points so on this example
you would get 5 plus 4 plus 6 plus 6 so
12 16 21 points just from your secret
ejectable that's not all because
everyone also has in front of them
shared some public objectives and those
public objectives are things like this
column shade variety calls with no
repeated value so you know you've had
let's see what I can get here clip will
work and this has to be a 5 so that's
unfortunate this has a 5 let's change
this to a let's change to a 4 move that
permit you would then score based on
each column you have a no repeat of
value so that would be 4 points the same
thing for a row their row shades riding
deep shades sets of fives and sixes so
on this one I would get two points two
points right there's a four points for
those two sets of 5 and 6 light shades
same thing these are weird they're
diagonals of the same color of dice so
right here we would get 1 2 3 4
almost row variety color just colors of
individual sets so anywhere on there as
long as you have two set of all five
colors which I think we have 1 2 3 4 5
so there's one point now here's an
interesting one if this ever happens
let's just pretend these are not
restricted if these two cards are in
play you're going to double point you're
going to double score you're going to
always get 10 from this and this
it's kind of interesting one to combo
with and then last but not least to
these kind of the column variety and the
other shades there that is the public
objectives these are little glass beads
that represent these favorite tokens
down here
each card the more difficult has more
than 15 six so you would put six on your
play area here and then for each of
these you did not spend at the end of
the game you get a point
also each open place on your window is
worth negative one point so those are
ways to score and not score as well so
what are these tiles are these token is
used on well the tokens are sent on
these cards right here which are tools
the beginning of each game there are
three of these out you can do this
randomly a couple different ways you
need to draw three or you can roll the
dice and get every three you draft but
interestingly you lay three these down
they all do different things for
instance after drafting re-roll the
drafted dice if you need a better number
you can try to do this the way these
work is you'll have three up at the top
or you know just in the common play area
the first one costs you one once someone
has placed there they cost you two no
matter what even if it's your own they
don't go up and commit an action
wouldn't be three it's just two each
time after that so you have to kind of
gamble do you want to use these tools to
do what they do for instance after
drafting flip the die to its off of the
side one you know flips to a5 and all
that kind of stuff so you kind of look
at the other side of the die say well I
really need a greedy three you spend it
there these are very helpful and you
only get three of them so the reason
this is cool is because there's so much
variety because there's so many tools
you only played with three each time
there's so many different scoring cards
young whip over three of those each time
plus you have your privates growing card
so you have multiple different ways to
kind of go for points one more time I
just want to show though component value
no this is not they can go in sorry
however the component value is there
just in all of the quality of the
materials look at this very thick
cardboard each of these charges are
double-sided that very neat they slide
into the pain and then the bag stitch
would figure out on the front with all
of these dice I'm just going to pour
them onto the table here
you can just see how many translucent
dyes come in this game just ate a lot of
dice and these are not just solid color
there so they are solid core but they're
not
it can matte coated they're see-through
translucent eyes beautiful little tiny
guys so when you see the board once it's
all the way complete looks absolutely
beautiful like its own stained glass
window and I love that you're building
your own stained glass window
interesting thing I haven't done though
I haven't looked at these in real life
to see if these finished products look
in some someone's like the real thing
because obviously these can be any color
the one with a blank there so I don't
know PS did I mention insert yeah it's
pretty great so again sorry for the
impromptu backdrop ik we're moving is
what we have but sagrada you don't give
a movie you care about this game sagrada
isn't something you should play 100% yes
this is a great game this is a buyer
game even if your friends have it this
is that game you want to try because one
to four players in a solo game is great
plus you put this thing solo you're
going to knock it out like that this
goes in two players very quickly because
you're only drafting five dice now there
are those moments where starts to slow
down towards the end and I don't mean
slow so but I just mean those moments
fear like oh I'm gonna take that I can't
play that nice I'm gonna take this I
can't buy that nice all you needed to
well I don't have any favorite tokens
left it gets maddening at the end of
this the choices you have to make but
should you get this 100% yes I was
playing this few minutes to go through
again and the entire time I kept
muttering out loud how long this game is
so awesome
this is so great it just kept coming out
here I love this game it is gorgeous
so I grata is one of those games I
highly recommend if I gave it a number
I'd give it like a like a nine and eight
and a half nine so why is that bye
remember the very beginning we're
talking about sneaking things in right
you should buy them but your your whole
point is flawed you're they're not
sneaking this in they put a theme on to
a game and added mechanics oh you're
right but for me in the way I like to
plug into the games I like to play I
don't like to play those answer if you
show me those abstract games I went to a
store this week where there was just
this wall of abstract games and it was
like a blank board with circular
circular patterns and like
white rocks and black rocks and I was
like oh my gosh that looks like like a
root canal there are people who love
those games and that's fine that's where
subjectivity comes in you can like that
game but this game has all of those
mechanics this could have been done with
a sheet of scratch paper and no theme
and called like Yahtzee window or so I
don't know it's not yeah to be doing I'm
saying I could have been called Yahtzee
window right and you just hey we're
putting a bunch of dice in a 5x5 grid
let's see how you do at the end of this
by not matching colors and not matching
this and here's a few special powers to
set it up it could've been you know guys
it could have been anything but because
they thought about this and said hey
here's a beautiful theme and here's a
really cool historical piece wonder of
the world type theme let's make that
what sagrada is it sells that it wins
it's a huge win you need to check out
sagrada I really need to say much more
sometimes I go on I've been told in the
comments sections but I love this game
you need to check it out sagrada by
flood game games make sure you check
this game out so for more make sure to
watch me on the latest retro here on the
dice tower Brian Jake you want to check
out our website with the magic and the
illusions on its lip we just got a brand
new website as well blind rage show calm
until next time we'll see ya
thanks so much for watching the dice
power videos find more great videos and
reviews as well as our top rated audio
podcast at dice our comm you can also
find other great shows at dice power
network.com I'm Eric summary and you've
been watching the dice Allen the dice
tower is sponsored by cool stuff game
where you can find great games for great
prices cool stuff in stock check them
out at cool stuff thanks calm
