TÍTULO: Edo' Sagrada Review | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: xXZKamFXmNs
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/143686/sagrada/edo-sagrada-review
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
hey everybody Edo here and this is
sagrada by darryl andrews and adrian
adam sq let me see if I got that right I
think I did I apologize if I didn't and
this is one of those games the hype
train is out of control I saw it online
everywhere everyone talking about
thinking about it posting pictures of it
and it's hard not to argue with that it
is gorgeous and beautiful and the
components everything about this is
solid solid I thought it was actually
going to be smaller it's sort of a big
box but once you get into it you realize
that there's a lot going on here but
this is a larger a larger game and but
it's light and airy and I mean that in a
couple of different ways I probably
should use some sort of stained-glass
metaphor but I failed I'm sorry but so
what's going on - Greta or Citroen
Sagrada is a game with lots of dice and
you are going to be essentially dice
drafting where you roll it's one more -
- / + 1 so I get an a player at 4 player
game you're going to roll 9 dice 8 + 1 -
2 4 6 7 8 - 4 6 7 8 9 okay not so
apostles 9 dice once the first player
rolls it into the box and basically
everyone's taking turns selecting these
dice they never get rolled again and
where you're placing them is in your
stained-glass so super cool thing number
one stained-glass beautiful unique
component but the other part of it is
you put in your you get dealt a number
of these and then you put in your your
spin your board card one you get to
choose which is interesting but also
they have difficulty ratings and it's
like a handicap depending on what you
pick so you could have more gems which
I'll talk about whatever these things
are more more tokens or sort of an
easier layout of the board really
interesting decision once you have
decide you're putting this in and
once it's in you have a couple
restrictions in this game first and
foremost if a put if a spot has a color
you need to use that color dye if it has
a number you need to use that number
second you can never put the same number
or the same color next to each other so
you're going to be taking a dye and
we're trying to fill up the board with
our dice if you do perfectly you have by
the end of the game you'll have exactly
filled up your your your stained glass
window if you've messed up or you have
some conflict you might be missing a few
and you get negative points for that so
the game is really going around the
table picking up a guy placing look at
your looking at what's in there you like
and you're placing placing to give some
some dynamics to that there are few
other elements of the game one everyone
has their own hidden objective maybe you
need to get it you get extra points for
a certain color or setup or whatever so
you each have your own little objective
and there are also bonus objectives on
the table so goal so you have your own
goals where they they're here you have
your own goals and then maybe there's a
team goal so you'll the team goal might
be like hey get for a1 and a2 next to
each other you get two points or you
have comms and no repeated values so
everyone's working on some open
community goals and their own goals for
bonus points on top of laying everything
out then there are also these tool cards
which are little abilities that you swap
spin re-roll and these are what you're
going to spend your tokens on so the
more tokens you have the more tools you
can use otherwise you're playing across
ten rounds nice little system that extra
die gets put here to symbolize the
progress on the track and some abilities
let you use that die really smart once
you're done you flip it over in each
tally your score really smart it's while
playing this I was sort of comparing and
thinking about role player which is was
one of my favorite games and it has a
lot of complexity and some player
interaction this is pretty lightweight
on player interaction this really is
your everyone's just working on their
little puzzle in front of them it's
gorgeous
and
it's nice it passes around quickly yeah
maybe somebody went for a tool quicker
because it was cheaper or maybe somebody
stole your dye and hope that what you're
going to do but for the most part you're
just chilling waiting for the tray to
come to you and playing in some ways it
sort of actually reminds me of
herbaceous it's that sort of light easy
in easy to explain play with anyone not
going to think too hard it's pretty but
you had fun and you enjoyed it so again
going into a million there was the hype
but not knowing much about the game
other than pictures I didn't know really
where it was going to land it lands in
that light accessible gateway cat or
category a really pretty I love that
category I highly recommend this one but
again don't expect too much player
interaction don't expect too much depth
you're going to pull it out but your
grandma to play have some fun and then
perhaps go play another game so but
definitely recommended and really the
number of smart design decisions in this
game is and development decisions is
through the roof amazing components
super smart very impressed so that's the
grata subscribe to share all that good
stuff
most importantly play some great games
thanks bye
