TÍTULO: Gen Con Bonanza 2016: Sagrada Interview | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: FRQEEpFyRoM
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/108675/sagrada/gen-con-bonanza-2016-sagrada-interview
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
bow is Jane corner presents gencon video
bonanza 2016 brought to you by gutshot
games and their gin con release
headhunters a collectible card game in a
collectible toy and shooting in games
makers of looting Atlantis and
conspiracy look for pinball showdown on
Kickstarter soon also brought to you by
the generous support of these companies
and our fantastic Kickstarter backers oh
hi there YouTube I'm backing a nick more
of our gencon bonanza explosion blog
coverage we're here live at gencon 2016
right now we are at the floodgate games
as good booth that's what these are
called with Ben who is he is El
Presidente correct you were the top dog
and we're gonna be learning about the
upcoming Kickstarter sagrada yeah this
is sagrada by Darrell Andrews and Adrian
Adam Adam SQ se dice drafting game where
you're crafting a stained glass window
to to build that out in order to gain
the most victory points to be the best
artisan so how does it play was walk us
through everything here sure so each
player has their own board with the
restrictions on it of what's required
for each color and shade represented by
the numbers on the dice players will be
drafting these dice and in rounds in
order to fill out their board so
starting with whoever the star player is
they'll grab five dice in a two-player
game roll them and then draft one of the
dice so now there's a couple
restrictions you need to follow for
instance here we need to place a five
any colors just fine so that would be
good placement for us here or if we're
looking at the color restrictions we
could place a purple dye here but
there's two rules you can never break
you can never put two dice of the same
color next to each other and never put
two dice to the same number next to each
other so as you're drafting you need to
be aware of that those restrictions so
you're planning for the for the future
actions that are coming so let's say
this player is going to draft one of the
dice here then in in player order we're
going to go to this next player and
they're going to draft a dye onto their
player board and it's a snake draft so
this player is actually going to draft
to now you have to build out from the
dice you've already drafted
and then we'll come back to this other
player and then they'll graph one more
you might be wondering why in the world
are we doing this besides the fact that
it's fun to place dice we've got a whole
bunch of variables in game scoring
conditions so for having each row
without repeated colors you're going to
gain six points free throw with out
repeated shades the number on the die
you're going to get gained five points
and then again four columns without
repeated colors five points there these
are variable so that changes up the game
quite a bit every game is going to have
a different set of scoring conditions so
this remaining guy will go on a round
track to keep track of the what round
Ratt in the game there will be ten
rounds in every game and we'll continue
passing the dice bag drafting dice as we
go these these player boards end up
getting pretty restricted by the by the
time we've drafted a whole bunch of dice
as you can see not breaking those rules
becomes really hard so what we do is
each player starts with some favor
tokens we're going to use these to pay
for the tools that are available to help
us break those rules this one for
instance let us lets us shift one of our
dice around in our board ignoring the
shade restriction so we can maybe shift
this five over to cover up the two if we
need to rearrange things to get a little
more flexibility that'll cost us one of
our favor tokens in order to do that
placing it on the card now the first
time you use one it only costs one each
subsequent time it's going to cost to in
order to use them so you're encouraged
to use them early as you go we have a
whole bunch of these tool cards too so
that also changes up at tons of
variability between these two the game
state doesn't change much in turn in
terms of what you're expecting here so
it's easy to plan around but creates a
fresh new experience every time each
player also has a private objective so
every player is going for the most the
most pips of a particular color that
they can this gives you a little bit of
mystery as to how you're going to plan
on winning because you don't share this
with your opponents and it always makes
players feel like they're still in the
game which is really fun game plays in
about 30 minutes per player it's two to
four players and we do have one player
variance as well and when did you say
this is coming to geeks are we're doing
Kickstarter on sep tember 12 do you have
a tentative idea of how much just
getting the base game will cost
nothing yet but if you check out the
project will have it all on there and
kick starters always appreciated to get
people's support and if they're more
interested in sagrada or any of the
other floodgate games where should we
send them floodgate gamescom or you can
check us out on twitter thank you very
much been that is the upcoming
Kickstarter pursue granite looks very
cool they're a beautiful lots of
variability looks really awesome was not
on my radar and now it is but you're
doing gencon coverage plz sure to click
on that subscribe button below in the
comments below let me know house fire
what is one of the first things you're
gonna grab that you don't need but you
really want oh man as much as I can of
my game collection excuse it that's
really that's a lot though I have white
artists oh yeah um yeah yeah it's as bad
as that is ice probably when I'm got
into what have we become love it what I
you know what yeah yeah I probably would
but let me on the goats but as always
thanks for your time YouTube this was
brought to you by headhunters from
gunshot games pinball showdown from
shoot again games these great companies
and fans like you
