TÍTULO: JonGetsGames - Sagrada Full Playthrough | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: 3dzhP7Ol_WY
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/138891/sagrada/jongetsgames-sagrada-full-playthrough
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
welcome to Jong Gates games today I'll
be doing a full three-player playthrough
of cigara in this game players will be
constructing a colorful stained glass
window in front of themselves by
drafting color Dice from a central pool
these dice must go down in front of them
according to a variety of restrictions
and they will also be trying to match
several public objectives that everybody
is shooting for I'll explain how the
game actually plays while we're playing
it so let's jump in here we have our
game fully set up for our three players
we'll be playing the game for the
perspective of the purple player over
here I've already done several pieces of
setup the most important being that each
player has chosen a window pattern that
they've slid into their frame we each
got two of these double-sided cards to
choose from at the beginning of the game
and then once we picked one we got to
see down here the number of little dots
this is how many favorite tokens we
start at the beginning of the game we
see that blue has five we have four and
red has three and these are correlated
with the difficulty of the pattern
itself so this pattern over here is
easier than this one which is why the
blue player got a couple more of these
tokens and we're going to spend these
tokens over here on these tools which
let us do various cool things as we
place Dice and move them around on our
little patterns we also have three
public objectives that were randomly
dealt out and lastly each of us was
given a private objective we see that
ours is blue this says that we're going
to get victory points at the end of the
game that equal the sum total of Pips on
all the blue dice in our window we'll be
going first and so what we do is we grab
this big dice bag and we're going to
pull out seven Dice and then we're going
to roll them since we rolled the dice we
are first to pick and I think that what
we should do is take this blue five
right here and put it down into our
window now the first die that we put
down must go into one of the perimeter
spots and there are a couple uh Cardinal
rules as we're playing the game the
first is that when we put the D down it
has to match the shade of the pattern so
if I want to put this blue Dy down here
that's fine because it's blue also the
PIP value has to match if there is one
on your board so for instance I could
not put this here because that says six
and this is a five I think let's go
ahead and take this blue five uh this is
good for us because well it blocks over
that spot also we know that our private
objective is blue so this is five points
at the end of the game for us and I
think that's a pretty good place for us
to start we now move to the blue player
and they've decided to take one of these
red fives and they're going to put it
down right here it's on the perimeter so
that's fine and now moves over to the
red player and they've decided to grab
this yellow six and they're going to put
it down right into this matching six
location and now they're going to grab
another die because the way this works
is we actually have a snake draft where
we picked one blue picked one Red's
going to pick two and then it goes back
to blue and then finally comes back to
us so the red player grab this yellow
four and they want to put it down right
here and at this point it's good to talk
about a couple more rules the first is
that whenever you place a new die down
onto your window it has to be
orthogonally or diagonally adjacent to a
previous die that you have also there
are two Cardinal rules of the game
you're never allowed to have two dice of
the same color orthogonally adjacent to
each other and you're never allowed to
have two dice of the same pit value
orthogonally adjacent to each other but
diagonal is just fine this also brings
us to a good point to discuss these
public objectives this first one right
here is going to give any game points
for having diagonally adjacent dice of
the same color and this is probably part
of the reason why the red player decided
they want to put this yellow d right
here because now this is effectively a
two-point play for the end game because
they have two yellow dice that aren't
diagonally adjacent we are also going to
get two points at the end of the game
for every pair of one and two value dice
in our entire window though positioning
does not actually matter and lastly
we'll get five points for every column
we have in our window that doesn't have
two dice with the same color for
probably much the same reason as the red
player blue decides to grab this five
and they're going to put it right down
here so it is also diagonally adjacent
to a red it's now finally come back to
us and we have to pick one of these two
dice right here and I think that we
should grab this one part of the reason
for that is because it's half of a
potential pair for some endgame points
from this public objective and also
because it works out relatively well by
placing right here this is a green
forced shade spot right here and also if
we look at the PIP values around this
one we have a three a five and a two so
that means we're not actually
conflicting we wouldn't want to put
something down that would Conflict for
instance if we had taken this purple
four and put it here we would have a
problem because we need to put a four
right here and you can never have two
dice of the same value so we're not
going to choose this one and with that
the round is over there's always going
to be at least one die remaining and
we're going to take this one and put it
up here onto the round tracker to show
that round one is done and we can now
move into round two we now hand the dice
bag to the blue player and they're going
to pull out seven Dice and roll these
blue starts It Off by grabbing this red
six and they're going to put it right
down here in the bottom middle of their
window red likes the look of this green
four and they're going to put it down
right onto this four spot for our first
pick I think we should grab this red
five right here uh first of all because
it works out relatively well for our
little pattern because we get to match
the five right there but also because we
have a sneaking suspicion that it's
possible that the blue players hidden
goal is red considering the only dice
that they've taken so far are red and
all high value so grabbing this means
it's not in the pool for the a blue pair
to potentially grab on their next turn
and for our second grab let's go ahead
and take this four because it matches
our private goal which is blue so this
is four points to us right away and
let's go ahead and I guess maybe put it
over here so that we have the ability to
chain off in a diagonal over there with
a blue if we put this here then right
from the gecko that's not great we'd
kind of like to put a red down there uh
and also it's jent to something that
needs to be a two and that's no big deal
for us I wouldn't want to put it over
here because then we'd have two Blues in
the same column and then we would lose
out on Five Points at the end of the
game it's back to the red player and
they decide to grab this yellow six and
they'll plug it down right there and
lastly blue decides to grab this yellow
five and they'll put it right there the
green five is the remainder so we'll put
it up onto the track and we can now move
into the third round of the game we'll
pass the die bag to the red player
they're going to pull seven out and roll
them red of course gets the first grab
and they're going to take this blue two
right here which is of course half of a
set for this endgame objective for
getting two points and they're going to
put it right into the bottom middle of
their board is now our turn to grab and
there are two good Blues available and
of course we could pick a different
color dice but blue is much more
attractive to us and right from the
get-go this five looks great because
it's worth five points at the end of the
game but the problem is that we don't
actually have any legal place to put it
on our board at the moment because right
here would be Blues next to each other
right here we would have fives next to
each other and the same thing goes for
these locations up here and of course we
can't put that there because it's yellow
so unfortunately we cannot actually uh
place this die down although if we
really wanted to we could activate this
tool up here now let's go ahead and take
a look and see the details of this it's
says it is a uh grossing pliers and it
says that after you draft you can
increase or decrease the value of the
drafted die by one and the way you
activate these is by taking favor tokens
and putting them down onto the cards the
first time either of these tools is
taken it just costs one favorite token
and every subsequent pull costs two of
these tokens but each token is also
worth one point at the end of the game
so I think at the moment it does not
make sense to sacrifice a point just to
be able to flip this over to something
else and put it as a diagonal when we
could grab this one which is half of a
pair to get two points at the end of the
game and we can put it down right here
where it's going to be diagonally
adjacent to this four so at least that
is a two-point turn and then half of two
points over here blue now gets to pick
two dice they're going to start with
this yellow one and they're going to put
it right here oops I knocked this die
over right here and for their other pick
they're going to grab this purple four
and they'll slide it down over here it's
our turn again and I think that we do
actually want to activate one of these
tools now you can use these either
before or after you grab these dice
depending on the actual power of the
specific tool and for us I think we want
to go first instead of doing this one
I've already shown I think let's go
ahead and activate this one over here
it's called a egom brush and it says
that we can move any one die in our
window and we can ignore the color
restriction that is on our window
pattern of course we do have to obey all
of the regular placement restrictions as
I mentioned before the first time one of
these tools is activated it only costs
one favorite token so we can put this
over here and then we can grab this blue
five which we placed at the very
beginning of the game and put it over on
top of this purple spot which leaves us
open to grab this blue five over here
which is also great because it's five
points at the end of the game and we can
put it down into that previous location
and we have the bonus of having diagonal
Blues of course this costs us one point
by losing the favorite token but we
gained two points by having this
diagonal set and we might even be able
to make it longer so I think this was a
good idea also it's nice to activate
these before our opponents do because
it's cheaper right now lastly the red
player grabs the red two they're going
to put it right down here and with that
the round is over we can take this
purple five and put it up at the top of
the round track and I think this is
actually a pretty good time to explain
our third and final tool option this one
right here is called a lens cutter and
it says that after you draft you can
actually swap the die you just drafted
with one of the dice on the round track
so that means that these dice over here
are not actually technically completely
out of the game we may pull one or two
of them back to actually fit them into
our board as we continue playing the
game the red player has handed us back
the die bag we're going to pull out
seven dice we got a whole bunch of red
right here and we will roll them we get
first pick and I think despite having
all these red dice there's lots of Pips
on them let's go ahead and take this red
five and we'll put it over into our top
Corner the blue player not
unsurprisingly is grabbing this red five
and they're going to stick it in the
middle of their top column red now gets
to grab two of them they're going to
start with this purple two right over
here and then they're going to grab this
purple five and they'll put it right in
the middle of all the rest of these blue
gets grab dice again and they're going
to get one of these red threes and
they're going to put it right over here
they have a nice big diagonal thing
going on right here and lastly it comes
back to us and I figure let's go ahead
and grab this green four and well we
could put over here in this four spot
but let's go ahead and stick it right
there so then we have a little bit of a
diagonal starting with that we've ended
the round the dice bag gets passed to
the blue player and they're going to
roll seven dice blue gets first pick and
they're going to take one of these green
ones and put it right into this Green
Spot Red's going to continue their
zigzag of yellows by putting the five
right here and now we get to grab two of
these and there's just no way we can
pass up a blue six we'll put it right
over here so we have a really nice
diagonal happening and we may as well
take this yellow three and put it into
this yellow spot just because well we
have to put a yellow there at some point
this is a reasonable opportunity we
already have a couple one value dice so
we're actually looking for two value
dice so there's no strong reason to grab
either of these red likes the look of
this red one and they're going to put it
in their top left corner cor and lastly
the blue clayer grabs yet another red Dy
and they put it down into the corner
that finishes off round five we can put
this green one up to the top red now
takes the dice bag and they're going to
roll all
these they're going to grab this yellow
five right here and finish off the
zigzag it's now time for us to grab one
of these and I think we're very
incentivized to grab this purple too
that's because we already have two ones
out on our board and we have zero twos
at this point also this purple two fits
really nicely into the spot that must be
a two anyway so I think we should go
ahead and do this it completes one of
our potential at the moment two possible
sets we'll be more interested in these
one value dice once we get at least one
more two blue gets to grab two they are
going to grab this red four put it right
over there and then this purple four
down into the corner and now it comes
back to us and it looks like we have to
take a one value die and I see no reason
not to take this purple one and stick it
right over there it's got to be a one
anyway and it fits pretty nicely for the
moment lastly the red player doesn't
really have a choice here they have to
take a green one and they're going to
put it down into this green shaded spot
right there that's going to finish out
the six round of the game it's our turn
to grab the d bag and roll a bunch of
dice the first thing we notice is there
is a blue two and I kept saying that we
wanted to have another two so we can
make a pair but another thing to notice
is that we have a blue in all five of
our columns now and we would really like
to not have any duplicates within a
column because then we'd be losing Five
Points the blue player has lots of red
dice already but they already have a
couple columns where that is not going
to be the case although they could spend
some of their favorite tokens to move
some dice around before the game ends it
does seem to me that this red three
works out pretty well for us though we
could put it right over here you can see
this must be a three anyway and it gives
us a little diagonal that we're already
working towards so I think that's going
to be a pretty good pick for us Blue's
going to grab this two over here and
they're going to place it right there
red gets to grab two and they're going
to take this green four and then this
purple five right here and you may have
noticed that we're not using these tools
too much just yet in fact only one has
been activated so far and in general
these happen much more in the late game
when it becomes much harder for us to
actually take the dice that are
currently rolled and fit them in within
our uh patterns because we've just
become much more restricted blue decides
to grab this green four and they'll
slide it in right there completing their
bottom row and we've got to take a red
five or a red one and I think we should
take the five because we can plug it
right down here we'll get a longer
diagonal bonus and we can't actually put
the one there because he'd be clashing
with that other one ones do seem nice in
general but I think adding to a diagonal
is probably the better thing for us to
do right now and with that we can take
this guy put it up here and that ends
the seventh round and we can move into
eight blue now grabs the bag and they
pull out wow a lot of yellow Dice and
they roll
them blue decides to grab this yellow
one and put it into this yellow shaded
spot on their window Red's going to grab
this blue blue four and put it on this
blue shaded spot right here and that
leaves us with a mess of yellows and a
single blue to play with uh of course a
blue six looks great but once again by
placing this down somewhere on our board
we're going to be sacrificing five
points for potentially not having any
duplicate uh dice colors so I think we
should probably start and grab this
yellow six right here and we could put
it there on our board and you know what
let's take the other yellow six and we
can slide it right over here we had a
couple different options we can make
work there's not a huge strategic
advantage to putting it here but it does
fit things relatively well of course
we'd love to have more Reds to make
diagonals but we would actually be able
to put a red here so I think all in all
we're pretty happy with that red grabs
the blue six and they put it in the
bottom right hand side of their board
and finally blue will grab this yellow
three and slide in right over here as
you can see there are not many spots
left over and this ends the eighth round
we have two more to go but it's going to
become much harder to actually find
valid dice to stick in and I'm sure
we're going to be hitting some of these
tools soon to make decent plays for
ourselves red now grabs this dice bag
which is getting significantly lighter
as we pull all these out and they roll a
lot of sixes they decided to grab this
purple two and they put it in their
middle row we're pretty bummed about
that we were really hoping to be able to
grab this die and punk it down right
over here and make a little diagonal but
that's not going to happen so this goes
right there in the middle but one of
these purple sixes is almost as good the
two would have been good because it
paired up with one of our ones for two
points but we can slide this over here
anyway and we still at least get our
diagonal and we've locked in another row
that has no duplicate colors the blue
player gets to grab two dice they'll
start by taking this four and sliding it
over there and for the second die
they're going to take this green four
but before they place it down they're
going to take one of their favorite
tokens and they're going to put it over
here onto the grossing pliers this
allows them to increase or decrease the
value of the die they just drafted so
they'll take this four turn it into a
three and they're going to put it down
right over here
looking at these three options we don't
actually have a legal move for any of
them uh mostly because they're all sixes
and we look at our board we see that we
can't put a six here we can't put a six
here and we can't put a six here because
this needs to be a four so I think what
we should do is spend one of our favors
and again these are one point at the end
of the game so we're losing a point by
doing this but let's use the last of the
uh tools that has not been used just yet
and let's take this purple six and we
can swap it out with this purple four
that is on the round tracker and we can
easily put this purple four down into
this slot here that works out really
well for us cuz it means that for our
last two grabs of the game they are they
don't have any specific restrictions on
them and we got another little diagonal
going and then red obviously takes one
of these yellow sixes and they don't
decide to use any tools they're just
going to put it down right over here
with that round number nine is done and
the dice bag comes back to us for the
last round of the game we'll roll all
these Dice and now we get to choose one
let's go ahead and grab this red two
this is going to work out pretty well
for us because we can slide it in right
here it's going to pair up with one of
the ones that we have to gain us two
points at the end of the game and we
there are still two purples out within
this dipol and hopefully one of them
will be available to us uh with our last
pick so we can slide it in right to this
last spot on our board the blue players
last two spots are a six and a two and
they've had to do a little bit of
thinking and they've decided to grab
this three then they're going to spend
two of their favors because once again
after one of these tools is taken every
future use cost two favors they'll put
it down on here they're going to
decrease this three down to a two
they'll put it in right over here which
works pretty nicely because they now
made a diagonal of two on their window
for Red's First grab they're going to
take one of these green ones and slide
it into the bottom left corner and with
their other grab they'll take this other
green one and they are going to spend
two of their favorite tokens they're
going to put it down onto the lens
cutter up here so they can swap it with
the red three and put that down onto
their board so they've completed their
board
and now comes back to the blue player
and they actually don't have any plays
whatsoever because when you look at
their board they have one of each of the
four out of the five colors surrounding
this six which means this must be blue
and since it's printed on the board
needing a six they would need a blue six
and there are no blue sixes over here
and no blue sixes amongst the dice on
the round tracker so that means that
they're just going to pass and they will
have one empty slot in their window for
the end of the game and finally it comes
to us for the last die grab of the game
and I know I went on and on earlier in
this round saying that I was hoping a
purple would survive but I was
forgetting that we already have a purple
in this column and we get five points if
we don't have any duplicates in that
column so this is actually a pretty poor
play for us I think what we should
instead do is well we can take this one
right here but while we're doing this
let's grab our last two favor tokens and
we are going to put these down onto the
lens cutter uh so you don't have to
increase as soon as some one person puts
down it's always two for the rest of the
game and we can swap this with one of
the green ones we we're certainly hoping
to grab the green one that the red
player decided to take instead and we
can slide this in over here it does not
give us any diagonal bonuses but it does
mean that we were able to get all five
of our columns to have no duplicates at
all and with that the final round of the
game is over we have more than one die
available and that happened because the
blue player wasn't able to grab so both
of these actually go up onto that one
slot on the round tracker and at this
point we can shift into endgame scoring
we no longer care about any of these
tools and we no longer care about the
round tracking so we can dump all of the
dice flip this over and now we have a
handy dandy scoreboard to total up all
the points we were able to make
throughout the game let's go ahead and
begin with these public objectives so
the first one is diagonal scoring again
it's one point per die that is
diagonally adjacent to another D of its
color so looking over at our area we see
that we have one two for these two
purples 3 four for the greens 5 six for
the blues 7 8 n for these Reds 10 11 12
for these blues and 13 14 for these
purples so we can take our purple
scoring chip and put it down on 14 next
up we have the blue player and they have
one two for these purples 3 four 5 6
seven eight for these Reds 9 10 for the
greens and 11 12 13 for the
yellows and now we have the red player
they have one two for the greens 3 four
five six for Purple 7 8 9 10 11 for
yellow then 12 13 14 for blue so between
the three of us we all got very similar
scores for that public objective and
next up we each get two points for each
pair of one and two we have in our
entire window we were only able to do
this two times because we have four ones
but only two twos so that's going to be
four points for us bringing us up to 18
the blue player was able to balance us
out really well with three ones and
three twos so that's going to be six
points for them bringing them from 13 up
to
19 and it looks like red was able to do
the same with 3 ones and 3 tws so they
go from 14 up to
20 the third and final public objective
was not having any dup colors within a
column we were able to do all five of
those so that's 5 Time 5 or 25 points
for us and that brings us all the way up
to 43 blue is only able to do this three
times because of these two duplicate
Reds in these rows so that's going to be
15 points which brings them up to 34 and
the red player was able to do this four
times with just the duplicate yellows in
this one column so that's going to be 20
points bringing them up to
40 it's now time for us to score our
private objectives we'll go ahead and
start with blue when we add up all the
Pips on the blue dice we get 21 more
points which brings us up to 64 so we
can flip our disc over to the 50 side
and now we get to see if the blue player
was indeed going for Reds and yes they
were when all of these red dice are
added together they gain 27 points which
is going to bring them up to 61 and only
three points behind us and lastly we can
take a look and see what the red player
had they were going for
yellows wow when you add all of these up
they got 32 points from this private
objective so that's going to bring them
all the way up to 72
points next up we all score one point
for each favorite token we have left
over we obviously have none the blue
player has two so that's going to bring
them up to 63 and the red player has one
left over so that brings up up to 73
lastly each player is going to lose one
point for every open space in their
windows but the blue player was the only
one to have any they just have one so
that brings them down to 62 and with
that we are done with all of the scoring
our final scores are 62 for blue 64 for
us and the red player has won by a
decent margin with 73 points and that
completes a full game of
Sagrada well I hope you enjoyed this
playthrough my main goal here was to try
and show the variety of things that are
going through a player's mind while
they're trying to figure out not only
which die to grab from the pool but also
where to put that die down into their
stained glass window that they are
forming they have to think not only
about the uh short-term ramifications of
putting this down there are going to be
many restrictions and only so many spots
you can actually put this die down into
the window but also what the
ramifications of that decision are in
the future because uh just because you
have a legal placement right now with
this D does not mean it's something that
you should do because maybe you now have
an illegal spot next to it you know you
have a restriction you can only put a
three pip down here and you put a
regular three right here now that's
either going to be an empty space at the
end of the game or you're going to have
to spend points uh in the form of those
favor tokens in order to use the tools
which can kind of rejigger things around
on your stained glass window and
obviously you cannot uh plan entirely
for the future and it's uh interesting
that you do have those tools out there
as an option to mess around with your
previous uh decisions or perhaps the
previous mistakes but either way you
have all these different things that
you're thinking about uh each turn and
uh even though it just comes down to
grabbing one die from the middle and
putting it down into this stained glass
window that you're making so I think
that wraps up pretty much all of my
thoughts on this specific playthrough as
always I'd like to thank everyone who's
been supporting this Channel Through
patreon including all of these producer
level pledges if you too would like to
directly support the channel you could
do so at patreon.com Jong games and I'd
really appreciate it also if you'd like
to see more full game playthroughs like
this one as well as in-depth board game
reviews and Vlogs please subscribe to
the channel thanks for watching
