TÍTULO: Never Bored Gaming - Our Thoughts | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: R8v2yzZNpNc
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/180136/sagrada/never-bored-gaming-our-thoughts
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
sup nerds I'm Wes and I'm Erin today
we're taking a look at subrata the most
beautiful game I've ever seen by
floodgate games in sagrada you are
building a beautiful stained-glass
window which is represented by this
player board that you have and you
actually select the window you want to
work on and gonna be drafting dice
throughout the game to actually assemble
this window the one thing the sagrada
has that really kind of stands apart for
me is how you draft the dice the
beginning of each turn and drafting is
not my favorite mechanic i'm not opposed
to it I don't hate games a draft I don't
like really heavy drafting games that's
like the main thing you do like I like
drafting in seasons I like that's good I
like drafting in sagrada you know
pulsars okay you know just it's okay it
is partly just because the drafting goes
by so quick you know it's only a color
and a number you're picking from and so
there's not a huge amount of analysis
paralysis you know when you're drafting
out of like a head of eight cards it's
like read each card and like you know
sit there and figure out these cards are
and think about like okay what do I want
and what do I want to hate draft away
from them
you know like it's it's so simple and
clean that it happens really quick and
it actually is it's not just like okay
with the drafting but I really enjoy the
drafting in this game and since all of
the dice are they're visible to everyone
during the draft everyone can be
thinking about the dice they want
immediately know when you're talking
about a card drafting you have to read
your entire hand and then pass it now
you've got a new hand of cards you need
to read like a bunny kingdom you're
looking at these cards if you get
parchments and things you gotta like to
really think about and even you're
looking at like oh I've had this hand
before what's missing from it I wonder
like okay it's missus missing so one of
them took this card so I don't want to
leave that like yeah there's there's a
lot of strategy and card games like that
or this you can look out there like hmm
I really want that too but help me and I
can see his I can see your window over
there your you might take that too
please don't take that too I really need
it and then you take it like I knew he
was gonna take it okay let me take this
too
six I guess yeah it's kind of an
abstract game I would say and the fact
that you know you're you have this board
that the mechanics they do work but it
almost has nothing really to do with the
theme yeah the theme was there I think
the artwork is part of what really sells
this game but you're definitely like
yeah I just
I could definitely felt like you know
all those times I built the stained
glass window this is exactly what that
felt like I definitely don't want to say
it's a negative because again the
aesthetics and the look and feel of the
game is part of what sold me on it
because the dice drafting in place back
it's cool but it really is a game that
like it's impressive to have on your
shelf just because beautiful I remember
looking at the Kickstarter that was the
biggest thing as a man that like the
artwork is so cool
the way this game is built around these
objectives if you're all trying to
finish that really you know make
difficult decisions like there will be
dice out there and you're trying to
either just like the color or the number
on them and make them match up with your
selected sheet and then you're also you
know trying to make sure you don't block
yourself out of other options later by
putting you know if there's a one year
you can't put a one next to it so you're
not gonna want to block yourself and if
you're trying to pull off a combo or
getting all colors at all the way across
one row there's a lot of thought and
like okay if I get this number here and
it's green that I can't get a green one
up here of that cup number this isn't
gonna work and there's it can be a
little bit of analysis paralysis
towards the end of the game or more like
in my game like every few turns equates
top I'm gonna have to mulligan this
because I place this dice illegally so
I'm going to move it up but then if I
plays that one illegally well we
probably started skiing over I do think
that the whole objectives and placing it
kinda right be a little bit of a zoo how
there's not like one thing we're going
for but there's multiple things you go
for it to get like there's different
ways to get points we're here like Oh
way you get points or how you place them
in you get bonus points for this and
then even the fact that we're not having
like symmetric player boards that is
beginning when you pick which like which
template you want to put into your
stained glass makes it really did
and it's not just like oh you got a
superior template you're gonna have an
easier time by the fact there's a
difficulty levels on them that give you
more if the little gems that you buy
tools later on I think that was a really
cool mechanic because you can go and say
okay well I just want to get a lot of
these gems get a lot of tools or just
bonus points the end of the game but
it's gonna be a lot harder for me to
pick like where I'm placing them or I
want to have a really easy one where it
may not get as many bonus points there's
many tools but hopefully I won't need
them because of how easy it is to build
this window
I definitely think they put a lot of
thought into the design of those
different difficulties when you've
picked the more difficult ones it is
really hard because you're like okay I
can only put purple in this row and now
I can't put any really high-value
purples in this row because you know
there's fives and sixes next to it then
you go to one of the ones it's a level
three and there's a lot of blanks on it
so you can easily fill your window in
and not worry about blocking yourself I
do definitely think that bounds is a big
thing in here and honestly just the
whole game is so fluid that there rules
it's almost like you can further rules
like that it's not like Oh what happens
here like let's check the rules it
doesn't make sense because of how fluid
the game works and how well-designed it
is so yeah I agree
great job on this one so you brought up
the tools the first thing you're trying
to get is these objectives the tools
really do help you achieve them some of
them are really good early game some of
them you definitely want to wait till
the end but after somebody else has
already use that tool that cost of now
increases from one favorite open to two
and you're trading up to victory points
if you save those for potentially one or
two victory points you know by placing
it in your window like if you're only
using your tool to keep a base you know
the last spot on your window from you
going blank and getting that negative
victory point for that it's not worth it
but if by placing that you're you know
completing an objective as well then it
might be worth it because you're
swinging you know two points four six or
something yeah that was definitely
something that I struggled with starting
off in this game is I just wanted that
oh look I can buy this tool do this and
this tool will do this and aha look how
much better
doing the new are and in the end of the
game came along and Aaron still had a
lot of those favorite tokens left and
like those extra points they may not
seem like much but this is a game where
those few extra bonus points really make
a big difference it's always been a very
close game the main group is always
within like 10 points of each other
there may be somebody they lagged behind
but very rarely is that we're one guys
like 20 or 30 points ahead the last
thing I want to touch on is the
production quality of this game I think
it is like out of the ballpark
excellent these player boards being like
double sheets are super great and the
fact that you know these the tiles you
select that window you selected fits
right on in they it comes with a dice
bag which is a nice thick dice bag it's
I'm one of those cheap ones it's gonna
fall apart and the dice I mean I guess
the bags are okay but they're clear
there's lots of them the component
quality almost goes along the aesthetics
because it's not just like oh these
carbs have pretty artwork but the way
all the components fit together to build
your windows is part of what makes this
game really pop I really think Sagrada
is one of those games that is gonna hit
the table a lot for a lot of people and
definitely in my friend and family group
it's really easy to teach but you do
build on strategy over time and you can
start to like really metagame it with
the gaming group you're playing with you
can kind of figure out like ooh he's
picking up these certain dice colors at
fives and sixes that must be his color
I'm gonna start heat drafting those dice
because I can use them in my windows
just as easily that may change with the
expansion that's coming out down the
road that's coming out with new player
unique cards that you're you know see
your objective secret objectives and and
new objectives for out there as well
plus more players so that always makes
everything win I played this game a lot
I actually played it in an extra life
tournament so playing this in a
tournament it kind of sheds a new light
on you're like wow I didn't even think
about a game like this being that
competitive that you could compete and
it and it definitely holds up it's fun
to just see like how people go into a
game that is designed to be almost
family way
but make it really competitive and put
money on the line sagrada is definitely
one of those games that i spend a lot of
time like looking at the kickstarter and
being like back in back back I really
want to back it I want to back this game
instead and I ended up passing over it
which I kind of regret and so when I got
a chance to pick it up actually an
already had a copy new text music hey
time to copy here coming definitely buy
it and hopefully that's alleviated I
know that they had a second wave of
reprinting and it's more available now
so hopefully it's more available and
you're watching this and you can click
the purchase link down there to get it
but it's definitely a game that like
besides the pressure of like it's not
available I definitely wanted to pick it
up and I do think it's interesting there
are two really good abstract games
account this year with sagrada and azul
and i that's really the only comparison
i have is they're two really pretty
really well produced abstract games and
like maybe they're almost competing a
little bit just because they follow that
genre but they're nothing alike so don't
be like oh well there's these two app
share games what should i get buy them
both they're both great it's definitely
just a great experience playing it and I
think it does pass the Tom's mom test
where you know you can play it with
someone you know we kind of say oh if I
can play it with my mother-in-law then
it's a game that is super accessible if
it's hidden we can play to our level as
well and still have fun with it it's
just a solid game I think it would be a
great like he said a family game or
apparently you could play it super
competitive too either way you should be
playing it so you should go to the
description box down below click that
link and get yourself a copy and while
you're down there don't forget to
subscribe so you'll never be bored
so talk more about tools so now you have
a lot just talk about strategy for tools
and
