TÍTULO: One Stop Solo Playthrough | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: v5Ldgz7UFoE
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/137214/sagrada/one-stop-solo-playthrough
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hello everyone and welcome to the
one-stop co-op shop today I'm going to
be doing a solo player of Sagrada if
you'd like to see how to set up the game
check out the video before this in the
playlist otherwise let's get going let's
grab our four dice to start our first
round give them a roll with this roll
not a great roll
I was hoping that this blue which would
give us points would be higher but only
a two so I think I'm going to grab this
six and I have to start anywhere on the
outside of this board and I'm going to
start right here now everything that I
didn't play has to be in this area has
to be adjacent to this guy either
orthogonal or diagonally so I'm going to
grab this five and place that man right
here but I have to move that five
eventually because I'm going to need a
five here but this way I only put three
points up onto the track but if you
think about it I scored zero with this
so already the opponent is up free
nothing here's the tracker will put one
and two let's go to round two grab and
floor dice from the bag sometimes it's
hard the types are kind of small okay
here we go I'm not too unhappy with this
rule and here's why I'm going to use
this tool the grinding stone I'm going
to draft this blue dye which is remember
that the Dinitz going to give me points
and I'm going to give up this green to
here to use the grinding stones now I
can't use it but I can now flip a guy to
its opposite side so I'm going to flip
this one to a six that gives a six point
yes I'm going to put that six right here
again it's a diagonal so that works and
the sixes are okay because they're not
worth cognitive then I'm just going to
draft this yellow three and place it
right here now if I get this four I'm
going to get four points because I have
different numbers in all four of these
places so that's what I'm looking for
and the round two will place this three
here so now our opponent has three four
five
six points and we have six because we
have that blue dye pull that out grab
and for more looking for blues come on
blues no no blows in this tile what we
do have is a ton of force so I'm going
to grab this green 4 and place this here
that's going to give a four point right
here and we're still doing okay with our
colors this way next I'm going to use
this lay skin I'm going to give up this
for purple dye to move exactly two dice
about obeying all placement restrictions
I'm going to move this five one over I'm
going to place this three over here in
the yellow spot I can direct one more
dye and I'm going to draft this six and
I'm going to put this six right here so
that way I have lost some points here
but this way I'm not putting so many
points up for the opponent and I'm
hoping I should still be able to get
this done around three and our opponent
gets four more points looking for blues
you guys think blues thoughts at me
please
let's see nope no blues bummer I'm going
to place this five right here I'm going
to grab this five and place it here so
remember the numbers only matter to be
different the different shades this way
and the colors matter this fits why the
fact I have two five here should still
be okay if I can get two different
colors here so now we'll put five more
points up to the board for the opponent
three plus two and just keep adding to
them please you guys can do the rules
from blue here let's see one two three
four oh yeah I rolled a blue and it's a
blue one Wow
so they come in a grab this one and
place it here and then I'm going to grab
this Reed and place it up here we're
going to be walking two points to the to
our opponents two more points and I'm
going to say I think right now we have
six points in total that's it guaranteed
yeah here's a little more than six let's
go around six blue blue blue blue blue
no blue Wow lots of lo dice too so I
think we're going to grab this to place
that here and we'll grab this purple one
and place it right there but now we're
adding up five more points to our
opponent I don't even want to know what
he's at for numbers yes let's just keep
going
blues please one two three and guess
what no blues some higher numbers that's
maybe not a bad thing
we'll grab this yellow three that will
get us some points looking at this we're
just going to have to lose some points
here I think what I'm just going to have
to grab this five which is such a bummer
and plop it here but now we have two
five tiers so we're not going to get the
four points of the different numbers
here but maybe I can use one of our
items are our tools next time to help us
let's put these six points on the
opponent for six more points let's go to
round eight let's roll them up and we
get another blue that's a tattoo ah
first thing we're going to do we're
going to draft this too and it's blue
but we're going to use this yellow one
to increase this by one to a three
we can then place that right here then
we'll grab this for we'll place that
right here oh my goodness
and the roni we'll put a two here and if
you guys hear something I apologize or
something going on outside but I'm going
to keep going
only two more rounds at this point I'm
looking for a five or blue it's really
that's what I'm looking for
how about a blue five first thing I'm
going to do with a no-brainer grab this
green six put this here
all different shades that is awesome
unfortunately though that means we lose
these points I'm going to use this five
and draft this for I can't believe I'm
now using this five I don't look a place
to put it but I'm going to do this so I
can grab a dye from the ground track and
swap it with this for this actually
might not be a good idea because we're
giving them two more points but I am in
turn and getting a because almost ten
points four and six we have ten points
so I think it's worth it
so swapping it with this to we're then
going to place this to here and you can
see it I've got the four points here
plus the six points here nice but I have
to give up this five and it's blue I
just didn't have another good place to
put it moving on to the final round
let's roll our last four nice I've used
all four of my tools so it's just what
can I drag I for sure it can draft this
to here and that's going to get me six
more points yes unfortunately the four
four and one all will not work here
because there's a four and there's a
blue so I have to give up all three of
these to the opponent yes that is nine
points right there and now I have a
minus 3 because I didn't so my track all
right let's count them up our opponent
here has 42 points just by adding up the
dice let's go look at ours first let's
look at row color variety so these are
all different colors right so that's six
points these are all different points
that's 12 this has not even done and one
that's 18 points oh my gosh I didn't
even really got six 12 18 points next
let's look at column shade variety
failed failed that's four points failed
one two three and okay that eight points
so we're at 26 points next we'll look at
our personal color which is blue six
seven eight nine ten eleven so that's
going to give us thirty seven points
then we subtract three we're at 34
I believe our opponent with that forty
two so we lost ah
but it was close through the close game
and then you have it that's a grata on
the second two easiest mode with a nice
and easy a nice and easy stained-glass
window as you can see it's not easy
although you might have been right Khan
why didn't you do this
so I might have made some silly mistakes
but I tried to think about it a fun game
it's quick to play quick to set up I
highly recommend it especially if you
can travel at all this could totally fit
in a small bag you don't even need to
bring this just bring these little
sheets and you'd have so much fun and
you can play this over and over again
there's tons of different ones of these
there's the different the six different
colors or however many different colors
one two three four five different colors
the five different colors you can have
as personal objectives and it's really
fun competitively too it's it's a it's
not an in-your-face competitive but it's
you know hey you're drafting dice oh
well she took my blue that I wanted you
know whatever it's fun I am really
recommended thank you guys so much for
watching and have a good rest you today
[Music]
