TÍTULO: Rahdo Runs Through►►► Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: 3BSonqR6RX0
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/110628/sagrada/rahdo-runs-through-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hey everybody today R runs through
sigada which is a game of dice Drafting
and window crafting where players are
going to be designing some of the
immensely stunning stained glass windows
that Grace the sagata familia in
Barcelona if you ever find yourself in
Barcelona you must check out the sagata
Familia it is out of this world amazing
and one of the things it's most famous
for is it's beautiful beautiful stained
glass so that's what we're here to make
some of today all righty so we already
got the game set up here it was G to be
a two-player game this is my stained
glass piece I'm trying to build this is
Jen's and actually the real game I
should say everything you're seeing here
is prototypes the real game according to
these prototype rules i h mentioned show
that there's going to be this very very
cool dice tray holder that looks like a
big gigantic piece of stained glass and
it keeps your dice from you know
accidentally jostling around not now my
prototype of course I don't have one of
those I've just got the card and in fact
the game comes with a bunch of different
cards to uh ensure that every time you
play you're going to be having unique
problems and strategies and puzzles to
overcome so anyway this is mine this is
Jen's mine's strictly speaking a little
bit easier because I've got more of
these Open Spaces where I'm not
restricted what I want to play I've got
eight Open Spaces Jen's got 1 two 3 four
five so Jen's a little bit more
restricted of the type of of dice she
has to play here which is why she gets
five favor tokens whereas I only get
four now what we're going to be doing is
we're going to be playing over 10 rounds
and each round we're going to do a dice
draft where every player can potentially
grab two dice to add to their stained
glass design and by the end of the game
if every round you get two dice you will
have filled the thing out every space on
here that you don't fill out you lose
one point every favor you have left over
at the end of the game that you don't
use you gain one point and as well each
of us is going to get a secret objective
so these are all just try to focus on
one of the five colors so Jen and I both
get a secret objective that will
translate into points for that adhering
to it so me I want to make purple oh Jen
likes to have the purple one but purple
is my goal in this game and for Jen her
goal is yellow although that's secret I
don't know she's after yellow she
doesn't know I'm after purple although
if we can figure it out of course that
means we could try and snag those right
off from under our opponents so they
can't get them because this means every
purple d i Place gets me a point but
there are other ways to get points every
time you play there is there are 10
public objectives and you're going to
take three of them in this game we've
got light shades color variety and
column shade variety where you can get
four points for every set of colors you
know for every set of all five colors
you've got that's four points at the end
of the game and light shades uh dice
with a one or a two which are considered
to be the lighter Shades three and four
are medium Shades five and six are Dark
Shades so ones and twos for every set of
ones and twos you got that's two points
so you want a lot of ones and twos and
then also the column shap variety we
want our columns to ensure there's a
unique pip value in every space because
every column that has a unique pip value
scores four so I that's what we're
shooting for this game but you know it
could have been we were trying to go for
our diagonals or we're trying to go for
uh you know well a whole bunch of
different ones all right so those are
our goals and also as part of the random
setup there are three tools out here and
and these tools are what we use our
favors for that allow us to manipulate
the dice that we roll and of course
we've got the the brush the lens cutter
and the grinding stone but there's a
whole bunch more the strip cutter the
the the corkback straight edge the glit
blazing Hammer all of these let you
manipulate the dice in different ways
all right so we're set up we're ready to
go everybody has their secret objectives
and let's get going I am the first
player what you do on your turn you draw
uh dice equal to twice the number of
players plus one so in a two-player game
that means we're rolling five dice and
let's roll okay what do we get
so okay now right off the back remember
I want purple but no purples came out
purple all righty well but however a
couple of twos came out and remember
ones and twos sets of ones and twos are
a big deal so that means these ones and
twos are implicitly more valuable so I
am the first player I get to grab one of
these Dice and install it although man
this is kind of a bummer because I could
take one of these twos and now you can
see I've got some restrictions as to
where I can place stuff I can only place
fours here I can only place red dice
here I can only place yellow dice here I
can only place a here so if I want to
take this to I've got to put it in one
of my no restriction spaces but that's
kind of wasteful because you want to
save those for when you're up against a
wall and you're having a hard time
placing a die uh it's good to keep these
available but on the flip side these a
set of one and twos is worth two points
so what I will take one so the order is
going to be it's kind of a sneaking
order first player goes second player
goes third player goes and then third
player goes second player goes first
play player goes or in our case I'm
going to take one Jen's going to take
one then Jen's going to take another and
then I'm going to take one so every
round everybody gets a chance to get two
and there's always one left over so
anyway so I've taken one and now on your
turn you have two things you can take a
die and place it and if you want to you
can activate one of the stones so for
instance if I wanted to I could do the
grinding stone and take this two and
turn it into a five if I were so
inclined that's actually interesting I
could now well I mean I could take this
five and turn it into a two but um yeah
that there's just no reason to I'm
taking the two I'm not going to grind
the stone this brush allows me to move
one piece in my window to another space
while ignoring color restrictions so
that's a way later on if I use this uh
the the eglomise brush I'd be able to
take this two which is green and move it
say into this red space even though uh
it it breaks the color rules so I guess
I'm not considering the brushes out here
I'm not too terribly bothered that I've
kind of wasted one of my Open Spaces all
right so anyway so now Jen's going to
take one and remember Jen likes yellow
she's very happy to see two yellows out
there but there's also a two and I think
Jen's going to snag that too because if
she doesn't she knows I will because
we're both competing for ones and twos
so she'll take that and look at this
she's got a um now the first D you place
on your window has to come from the
outside edges you know any outside edge
space including the corners so you can't
just like jump directly to this two
space here Jen's going to come in from
the outside and fill up that green space
with a green D obviously she was
required to do that now Jen can take
another die and your first diee has to
come from the outside but every D after
that can be placed adjacent to any Dy
you've already got and that includes
diagonal adjacency so looking around
Jens she's got a pretty good plan here
she's going to go on ahead and take this
five
and place it diagonally adjacent to this
two and she has now filled up this
restricted two space or this restricted
yellow space and remember well she
scored a point for filling the space up
plus another point because it's yellow
and uh so she's pretty happy with that
now she's left two for me so I'm going
to take one I'll go on ahead and take
this yellow U because remember I have to
go off Jason so I've got two yellow
spaces to fill here so that'll be nice
I'll just go on ahead and fill this
yellow space all right there's always
one die left over every round it just
goes away and that is a reminder that we
have finished the first round once 10
dice have been placed up here that's how
we know we have finished 10 rounds of
the game and then we tally up to see who
wins so I was the first player I went
started now we the first player changes
Jen will be the first player in the
second round let's see what she pulls
and rolls all righty 1 two 3 four five
dice wow okay there's a green BL and
still no purple for me where are the
purples where are my purple people at
now Jen gets first di she'll take one
I'll take one and then another one and
then Jen will take one more and hey look
at this here's a one taking this Jen's
going to snag that she will put it here
adjacent to her existing ones in this
one space and now Jen's got a pair of
one and twos that's two more points she
scored she could also put it over here
if she wants but there's a problem in
addition to the restrictions you have to
pay attention to based on the card you
know the color and pip restrictions
there's another even more crushing
restriction you can never place a Dy of
the same color or the same value next to
an existing one so you can never place
um a two next to a two this would be
illegal for Jen to do she can't put a
two next to a two nor can she put a
yellow next to a yellow so that's a big
restriction you always have to work for
and if Jen took this blue and she might
say hey look I I can put it over here
and that fills up the one or I could
fill up this one or I could you know but
here's the problem Jen putting a blue
here means she has to put a blue here
and because she's put a blue here it's
impossible to put a blue there so she
would be basically ruining her chances
of finishing her stained glass window so
this would not be a good place to put it
she's going to put it over here although
she could put it over there as well well
that she'll just go on ahead and put
this over here because remember another
thing we're having to take into
consideration we get four points for
every column we have at the end of the
game that has unique values Jen now has
unique values a two and a three she
wants to put a four a five or a six in
these two spaces so she can get four
points for having column shade variety
another objective so anyway Jen grabb
that now I get to grab two and remember
I like purple but I don't see any purple
so what am I going to grab instead well
I would like to get some more ones and
twos the the last two here is a yellow
and unfortunately I can't put it here
because again a two can't go next to a
two I could take this yellow and I could
put it say like this that would be legal
cuz um the adjacency thing doesn't count
for diagonals I couldn't put it here
because you can't have a yellow next to
a yellow or a two next to a two but you
can have things diagonal adjacently so I
could do that and I've snagged another
two I don't have any ones yet so I'm
still not scoring any points for this
and again I'm being kind of wasteful
because if I take a yellow I re a yellow
two I really want to put it into a two
space or a yellow space face ah let's
see because well okay first of all I get
to take two so I think another thing
I'll take I'm going to ahead and take
this green five and put it here thereby
filling up that that uh five space that
could be trouble for me later I've got
that filled up and I'm going to take one
more and again I could take a yellow
here's the thing I one thing I won't do
is put a yellow here because then that
means I can't put a yellow here where
I'm required to am I going to take this
yellow and put it I could put it over
here now no I wouldn't want to do that
because then this yellow would be
blocked off so I could do
that oh but that's so wasteful but again
it's it's only partially wasteful
because I can move these dice around
although every time I use any of these
tools I have to pay my favors that means
I'm throwing away points to use the
tools so I don't want to use the tools
unless it's absolutely
essential and here's the thing if I
don't take this too I can look over and
I can see Jen well actually you know
what what would Jen do I don't think Jen
would want to take this to either the
only place she could put it legally
right now would be right here and that
would be no actually I'm sorry she can't
because she can't put a two next to a
two she can't put next to a yellow
actually Jen can't take this two at all
so if I don't take it I don't have to
worry that much about Jen taking it so
maybe I should take something that's
better for me although a three a
four and a
two I you know my my eight my my thing
doesn't want blues or greens at
all and I don't want threes or fours I
want a up here but I'd have to get this
space filled in first oh my gosh wow
well you know what I mean looking at
that
then what the heck I think I will go on
ahead and take the two might as well
because if I pick up some more ones
later it'll be worth it and no matter
what as it turned out with the way this
rolled I was going to have to use one of
my Norms anyway so back to Jen she gets
one more die and yeah easy peasy she's
going to take this and fulfill that blue
space without limiting the one or the
two or the purple she has to go there
and that was the end of the second round
okay my turn I want to see some purple
dice folks this is getting ridiculous
one two three four five okay one purple
die well I guess I that's got my name on
it I'm definitely going to want
that although oh my gosh come on game so
remember I want purples a purple finally
comes out and it's a four oh wait no no
that's fine cool cool cool oh but no
it's not fine I can put this here I can
expand off of this yellow and put it
here but here's my problem I want to
have color or shade variety a four and a
four in the same column means I have
given up the chance to get four bonus
points off this column by putting fours
in the same spot oh game man so anyway
I'm going to take one then Jen's going
to take two and I'm going to take one
more I want that purple so bad oh but I
want this one also because then I've got
a one and a two and that's two more
points but where am I going to put that
one well here's the thing though if I
don't take that one Jen's got the
perfect place for it so I got to take it
just so that Jen can't get it because
although Jen might take the purple she
might take the purple and put it right
there I may be giving up that purple but
you know what this one is worth a point
for filling up a space plus it's worth
two because I will have gotten the first
pair of light
shades all right well we'll do it we'll
do it we'll do it we'll do it we'll do
it oh my gosh I just also realized I put
a two and a two here in the same column
once again I have limited m
okay but I'm going to take this one
anyway and you know what I'm going to do
I am going to spend one of my favorites
on your turn you can take a die and you
can use one of the tools I'm going to
use this maneuver stuff I'm going to
move this
two oh wait no but I can't yet shoot I
want to move this two over here but you
can't I can't make a move that would
make this two off by itself away from
everything else so I can't do because I
wanted to put the one here because then
I'm taking care of my column shade
variety thing um but I can't do that I
could move this two no I can't move that
two over there because I I can only
ignore color restrictions not shade
restrictions anyway so I'm taking this
one where am I putting
it um I'm actually really restricted in
where I can put this
one you know on the flip side though you
know if I ignore the one and the purple
I could go on ahead and fill in this six
space which I need to fill I mean and
maybe I'm not going to find a six later
on there's a lot of options these are
all good but I think the main thing is I
don't want Jen to have that one cuz
that's just going to be too perfect for
her and my fingers are crossed I'm
hoping she won't take the
purple but why wouldn't she take the
purple of course she's going to take the
purple because she needs a purple well
but she also needs a red so she might
take that red instead but and you know
and she has no particular idea actually
if anything she's probably likely to
leave the purple because if she's paying
attention to me she knows I need that
six for this which if she takes that
then that'll leave me the purple but you
know what really what she's likely to do
she'll take the red and the purple
because she's going to take two back to
back and then that's going to leave me
with a four and a six although this
yellow six I could put here or here so I
would be able to or but I can't put a
yellow six here
ar oh tough choices this game I mean it
very quickly gets very interesting and
complex I'm going to take the one anyway
though just so I can get the light
shades and I'll go on ahead and put it
here or I put it there
yeah and then later on I will hopefully
um you know take care of this 2 two
thing although remember to do it I mean
I have to spend a point to make it the
interesting thing about the tools is
you're in kind of a race to use the
tools the first player to ever use a
tool only has to spend one favor but
from that point on anybody including the
original player who wants to use the
tools again that given tool has to use
two so tools get more expensive once
they've been used once so if you're
thinking at all about using a tool you
want want to use it sooner rather than
later let's see
here yeah okay I'll take that and now
let's see what Jen's going to do and you
know what I think as predicted very sad
for me Jen's going to take this purple
oh my purple and she's going to take
this oh wait oh hold on a second she
doesn't want this red because if she
puts this here putting a six that
prevents her from being able to put this
six here so she's not going to take that
or at least not
necessarily H so I mean she could take
see on the flip
side she could go on ahead and take this
six and now she could still put illegal
red there later I think that's what
she's going to do and I'm like oh my
gosh surprise the six got left for me
hooray I'll take that awesome okay and
then that was round three Jen's turn
rolling five dice one two three four
five oh and finally it is the turn of
the
purples so Jen's going to take one one
and I'm going to take two and Jen's
going to take one no ones or twos came
out very interesting okay so nobody's
chasing after the lades although again
they kind of did because the first
player to use the grinding stone can
turn a six into a one or can turn a five
into a two and that might be worth
throwing a point away to be able to do
that particularly because Jen needs a
two and a one right there so that's
actually pretty cool that's pretty cool
I think yeah Jen is going to be the
first to use the grinding stone and she
will
turn this
yeah she will turn this six into a
one no she will I'm sorry she will turn
this five into a two and put it here
because if she turned the six into a one
and put it here she would have messed up
her
multicolor what's it called the column
shade the column shade variety wait no
no she can have the same color it's
different numbers you want different
numbers right right right so well she
could have gone either way but you know
that's okay she still went with that all
right so now I'm going to take
two and what am I going to do I want
this six remember I want purples I want
this six to come over here to fill in
this purple space just so I can get that
done which means I need to put something
in one of again I'm just kind of wasting
these easy
spaces but what the heck I will do it
and I will
put
the okay I'll take this blue five and
I'll put put it here can't put it there
because it's next to a five but I'll put
it there and now that got me reach over
here to put my purple in all right and
so now Jen's taking one more and you
know what o I wasn't even paying
attention to this but Jen wants to fill
this red space but here's a four here's
a five that means you can't put a four
or five in that red space she needs to
put um or a six she needs to put a red
one two or three into that space if she
ever wants to fill it in and score a
point for it but in the meantime Jen's
still happy to have these left over
she'll go ahead and take this red five
and put it right here she didn't want to
put the red four because then that would
mess up this four all right round four
is over round
five uh one two three four i d six one
one two three four
five all right oh wow look at that folks
it's a perfect storm it's a purple and
it's a one that is what I want um
because then I'll have my second pair of
ones and twos and I'll have another
purple although I don't have any
specific purple spaces to fill but still
I can't let this go
now where am I going to put this I want
to put this remember I'm going for
Unique numbers in rows well heck the
only place I can put it is here although
then um and you know I could do this if
I want to give up on having unique pip
values in this row then I could put it
here that's the easy peasy thing to do
or if I want to still spend to move
stuff around then I should go on ahead
and put it over in this row I'll do that
and now that's giving me access to being
able to build on both of those all right
so that my first now Jen remember uh Jen
like yellow so she's eyeballing this
yellow three and which she will put down
here nice filled up that and she wants
one more and remember I was saying she
wanted a red one to her three she got it
although oh no if she puts a red three
here and there's a three here once again
she's given up on column shade
variety which is four points so she puts
that there where else I mean she doesn't
oh no here's the problem if she puts any
if she puts a red three here at all then
she can never get shade variety so that
means she really has to hold out for a
red one or two in this space and what
are the chances that's going to
happen you know Jen could try to flip
this but then it's a four and she can't
put it next to a
four she wants this but does she dare
take that chance or does she give up on
the four no she's going to take a chance
and instead she'll take something else
she'll take well she'd love to take this
and put it here but then that messes up
this this six space so that's no good
good is that green any good for her yeah
she'll go ahead and take this green and
put it right there okay so that's fine
she can still build in both of those
spaces and so now she's left me
one and what do I want to do oh I got a
lot of red spaces to fill so I think
I'll take this and I think I'll just go
on ahead and put it right here because
that's legal for the numbers it's legal
for the colors and I've still got my
chance of oh man I just realized I put a
four here that means I can't put a all I
think I did right anyway so that was
round
five round six one two three
four no purples for me there's some
yellows for red though Jen is definitely
happy about that let's see what is she G
to
do um all right she still got that red
to fill she wants a red one or two there
that didn't come out for
her and of course you know as you go
longer and longer it's just going to get
trickier and tricker and this board is
going to get Tighter and Tighter I think
Jen's going to take this yellow five CU
she loves yellow she needs fill out that
five and she hasn't messed up that
column that's leaves two for me I need a
four to fill up this space let's go
ahead and take this red
four although but if I put a red four
here I can't put a red there if I all
right well let's go ahead and put it in
this red space because that's tot legit
and now I get one
more and hey you know what I've got this
yellow I need to fill this yellow and
this yellow this would be totally legal
so that's cool let's go with that
and yeah and so okay so although oh I
left a one I left a one do I want Jen to
have a one
no but you know what uh can she if she
takes it she's just going to put it
right here look how perfect that is for
her and that would give her so that that
means she's got a one and a two and
another one and a two so we are tied up
on the light Shad race because I've got
a one and a two and I've got a one and a
two I can't let her have that one but
look how perfect that yellow is and I
need to fill that yellow space in I this
might be my only chance to fill that
yellow
space Oh goodness gracious now I'm Gonna
Fill it I'm just going to do it and yeah
Jen is going to take that one boom
Perfect all right so that lift that on
to round seven one two three four five
hey look at here some
purple Jen says no yellow so sad okay
I want this purple because it's bonus
points to me I have no three so again
I'm going to have to use one of my
existing spaces I can't put it here here
because this purple I could I could
totally legally put this right here
because there's no threes there's no
purples and you know and this was
getting to be a tougher and tougher
space to
fill that's not bad okay let's go with
that although what am I giving up
here I giv up any of
these ah cuz that's a four which no I
can't put that four there
I could put that four up here though Jen
has no but I mean this is a tough space
to fill I'm pretty happy I got that fill
so we'll go with it let's see what Jen's
going to do all right she has no blues
or but okay she does have this four
space
so yeah I think she's GNA snag that blue
which I wanted and I let her have it
boom and what else is Jen gonna do Jen
will you know what I think Jen's going
to spend two more points
to turn this six into a one and fill
this space it's a unique color it's a
unique number it's another one for a one
two so she just threw two points away to
get this one point filled up here but J
that's another one so Jen also has a
chance if another two comes along she'll
get two points to make up for the stuff
she's lost so she's going to go for that
and that leaves me with one left over
and what can I
do I could go on ahead and put this four
right here that looks pretty legit all
right there we go that's fine oh boy
it's getting tighter folks let's see
what Jen's going to come up with 1 2 3
four five
dice all
right right oh hey look Jen's been
waiting for it there's that red too
she's been waiting for perfect okay so
that gives me two things and I like
purple yes I do I like purple how about
you let's go on ahead and put it right
right here no I can't I can't put it a
purple next to a purple I can't put this
purple next to
anything I can't I because I can't put
it there because purple is killing me I
can't put the purple I canot oh so sad
so sad oh all right well this moving on
don't uh don't live in the past there
buddy this is interesting okay I was
thinking about before I could do it now
if I use this to move this two out of
here here over here and fill up that
space I could then take this yellow five
and fill this space in and boom I spent
a point but I gained Four Points by
making this a perfect column that was
pretty good pretty good and this is a
perfect column as well yay now I still
want to move this yellow over
here so that I can put something else so
I can have four perfect columns and
that's going to cost me two points but I
can only use a given tool once per turn
so anyway after all that I'm going to
take one more and if I'm thinking
eventually I'm going to move this yellow
over here then I don't want to put this
red
four although you know what there's a
red four and a four and if I move this
other four I could just totally give up
on this column for having unique numbers
but still have a chance for that column
over
there or hey I just pulled another four
I could fulfill this requirement as well
while no I can't because I can't put a
green next to a green I can't do that
that would be tote
[Music]
cheating
okay yeah yeah yeah yeah let's go on
ahead and take that four and eventually
I'm going to move this four over here
and I just I'm giving up on this but I
still got hopes for this column and this
column right so that leaves two for Jen
and what's she going to do this green
she can't put any of these spaces she
could put the green up there she can't
put it there no she can't put this green
any place because it's a four it's
blocked off there it's a green it's
blocked locked off there although if she
spent two more and turned it into a
three she'd have options so
alternatively it's this purple she can't
put the purple in either of these but
she could put the purple anywhere down
here so Jen's taking the purple and um
she wants it to be she doesn't want to
put it here because then that messes up
the unique numbers for this she'll put
it right here she's finished that column
there we go that was round eight two
more rounds folks oh it's coming down to
the wire 1 two 3 four
five Bippity B boo all
righty so now this is when I will use my
brush again to slide this over here that
column is done it's it's useless there's
three fours in there so I've totally
given up on column variety but now that
means I could take this yellow which
unbeknownst to me hurts Jen because she
loves yellow and now if I can just get a
four over here if I as long as I can get
a four in here I've done it I have
finished this column perfect although
that means I just threw this purple away
but you know what I couldn't put this I
couldn't put the purple here or here or
there anyway so the purple wasn't going
to do me any good so I'm pretty happy
with that now Jen's going to take two
I've given her a wide variety of stuff
if she takes this one and this two
that's another light shade bonus can she
do
it um she totally can she could put this
one say over
here and oops that was a one and that
means that column's fine that's all
totally legal and then can she put this
to someplace she can't put it there or
there or there Jen cannot put that to
any
place
shoot um but she takes one more she
could take this purple five and put it
down there and she has completed another
perfect unique value column she's happy
with that she's left one for me and hey
this is my chance to get a two but I
can't put it there I can't put it there
I can't put it there because of the
green the the number and the all those
restrictions I can't use that too either
but you know what I there's one tool I
have yet to use I think I'm going to use
it no no am I going to use it right now
see the last tool the lens cutter would
let me take either of these put them up
in the countdown and pull so I could
pull this blue five out or this blue
four out and get a perfect off of this
and here's the thing I only have one
favor left if Jen goes here before I do
then I can't use my last favor so this
might be my last chance to use it but
here's the thing if I don't use it I
could push my luck and hope that next
round a four comes out that I could use
but you know Jen's going to be first and
the last round if a four comes out
she'll see that she can put a four here
and keep it for me I'm not taking the
chance I'm going to use the lens cutter
and so I'm going to take this this two
let's say no because I don't want to put
a two out here that Jen could grab using
the lens cutter I'm going to use this
six to bring this four and I've done it
so I spent a point to gain a point but
more importantly I gained four points
last round here we go this is for all
the marbles and Jen still has two tools
she could two favors that's two points
or she could use any of the tools for
this last round and let's see what we
got remember Jen loves yellows we both
love ones and twos we're both trying to
get these these columns what does Jen
want um she can't put a one or two here
she can put a one here so she could take
this and boom finish that and now
uh one two three six so she can only put
a four or a six here there is a six
there is a six and there's four so Jen's
pretty confident she's going to get that
so she filled that
space and um now it's my turn I've got
two spaces to fill and I I will these
work will these work will these work
will okay this red I can't put this red
there be or because it's a six I can't
put a six next to a six this purple I
can't put the purple anywhere cuz I got
my two purples these are both dead to me
this six I could put this six up here
all right and this two oh my gosh folks
look at that
perfect look at that nice all right Jen
this is her final so she can put a six
into this space and she will do so this
doesn't mess up there's no restrictions
there's no sixes next to it there's no
Reds that's it game over final tally
time okay well we both both got a
perfectly filled out stained glass
window so we both score 20 points right
right off the bat Jen has two favors
left over so she's in the lead 20 to 22
and so now I reveal I like purple yes I
do so I got three
purples so that's three more points
coming my way uh let's see here how am I
going to keep track of all that we'll
just use some more of these favor tokens
all right so I just pulled three for my
purples Jen she reveals I yellow 1 two 3
four oh that's four points for Jen scary
all right so effectively at this point
Jen's W the lead it comes down to these
let's look at the light shades pairs of
ones and twos here's a pair all right
that's actually I mean so actually we
don't need to keep the all right so
there's a
pair there's a pair did I get any more
ones no I only got two ones so that was
two pairs so so um that is that's four
more
points 1 two three four all right and
how did Jen do for pairs one one a one a
one that's four ones five ones she got
five ones but how many twos did she get
one two wow she even though she got all
these ones she only got two twos I kind
of lost track of that is that true
there's only two twos in here yep so Jen
also got two
pair the game my understanding is the
game will actually come with a little
score p pad and pencil you can use to
keep track of stuff I think I'm not
really quite sure I'm not quite sure
what the final scorekeeping is the rules
don't say um heck I could just use dice
I could just easily just use dice to
keep track of what the final score is
but anyway so last one column shade
variety oh but crap I shouldn't have
pulled these apart oh dear that was very
important
oh ah okay can I reconstruct this I if I
recall correctly this is the only one I
didn't have right right because oh dummy
oh you're such a dummy what did I do
yeah there's a purple up here and
there's a yellow here and there I think
it was like that I think this is what it
was so I've got this is not variety
there's variety here two three four I
got four
variety um yep so that is 16 points how
did Jen do one no variety
here two
three four so Jen got four variety I got
four variety Jen was already in the lead
so Jen takes it folks and that was one
full playthrough of sagata and now if
you'd like to hear some final thoughts
you can hit the eye on the top right
corner screen or follow the show notes
in five four 3 two 1
