TÍTULO: Sagrada Review by Man Vs Meeple | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: olAPPUvVlBE
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/133090/sagrada/sagrada-review-by-man-vs-meeple
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
welcome back to man versus meeple the
show we talk about all things board game
related today we're talking about a
brand new game called sagrada by
floodgate games it is a wonderful player
30-minute experience that plays ages 13
and up yeah 13 and up I'd say maybe even
a little lower this is a great
accessible game and a great introductory
to dice drafting for sure yeah so the
game is based around the Sagrada família
which is a very beautiful Church in
Spain that's known for its architecture
and stained glass and it's stained glass
windows of course so in this game
players are gonna be building their own
stained glass window with coloured dice
five different colored dice which we'll
be placing in their window and unique
patterns to score points right
everyone's gonna be scoring points in
similar fashions yet everyone does also
have a secret objective to score points
as well plus there are some placement
rules that have the game a very
satisfying puzzle every turn that's
right so let's walk you through the
components real quick at the start of
the game each player will be dealt one
private objective there are five private
objectives in the game and they're all
for placing particular colored dice in
their window frame right
each of these give you points depending
upon the number of pips that you have of
that color at the end of the game then
players will be dealt window frames
they'll actually get two different
window frames which are double-sided
once they know the color of their
objective they can pick these they're
gonna pick one of these window frames
and then pick one side of them to use
now there's two important features on
these window frames one is the colors
and the numbers when you're placing dice
through the future of the game you'll
have to place light-colored dice on
those locations and then pips of those
numbers and those can be any color right
you're going to place that actually into
your frame and it slides right into the
bottom of your window frame also on the
bottom of each of these window frames
you have favor tokens and these favor
tokens are these crystals here that
allow you to manipulate the dice through
two cards in the game exactly and that's
gonna vary depending on what card you
take and that's also related to sort of
the difficulty of that card because as I
said earlier there are placement rules
that make this a little tricky it's not
as simple as picking a card randomly
yeah because you
you can't place like numbers next to
each other or like colors next to each
other you also have some public
objectives in addition to the three
tools that you always have you'll have
three public objectives and these are
asking players to do sets of numbers or
particular patterns or diagonals on the
board that will give you victory points
at the end of the game depending upon
those patterns and the number that's
associated with them right you have a
round track which also on the backside
is a score track once the game is done
you're gonna be playing through 10
rounds in the game and then of course
you have your colored dye and there is
90 dice that are placed into the bag and
they're randomly brought out by the
first player depending upon the number
of players and rolled at the start of
every round and then draft it that's the
that's the main meaty portion of the
game yeah so you're gonna be playing
over ten rounds starting with the first
player that player is going to pull an x
number of dice from the bag depending
upon the number of players we have a
four player game so we have nine dice
that were drafted they're going to roll
those dice at the start and then a draft
starts in a snake fashion so starting
with the first player they're gonna pick
one of those dice and then around the
table and then snake back around to that
first player again now as David alluded
to there's some placement rules in this
game that you have to know the very
first die that you have to place in the
very beginning of the game has to be
around the edge of the board around the
corners again you have to follow the
rules of the game color dice have to be
placed in those particular colors on
your window frame and dice that have PIP
numbers on them have to be placed on
those specific fed members on your board
yeah now there's some other rules here
that are very important to make sure
that you follow because the game gets
progressively harder as you go
absolutely yourself in a jam for sure
you can one you can never place two dice
next to each other that have the same
pip number and that is orthogonal E so
you can't have a six next to a six or a
five next to a five also you cannot have
the same colored dice next to each other
or phenomenally so you can have a yellow
next to a yellow anytime you place a die
you're lost to place anywhere adjacent
to any die that you currently have on
the board right including the including
diagonal yes yeah the the dice placement
gets a little interesting because the
other thing you have to remember the
colors are easy easy to see
on these stained-glass windows but the
pip numbered spaces if there's a five
and you happen to use a five in one of
the white spaces and I don't think we
said the white spaces you can place any
die yeah but if you were to place say a
four next to that four you've just
blocked yourself on yourself so unless
there's a card that allows you to move
some dice around and there are some
things like that potentially in the game
you've basically blocked yourself out of
fulfilling that one space once it snakes
back around to the first player the last
die that's available and always be one
die available that goes on to the round
track signifying that that round is now
done now one thing you can do at any
time during your turn is you can also
ask for a favor from the church and
that's by using a tool there's always
three tools that are available to all
the players and you'll be using your
favorite tokens
again those favorite tokens are granted
once and once only at the start of the
game depending upon how difficult your
window is you can place one of these
favor tokens on any one of these three
cards to enact that ability and that
allows you to manipulate the dice in
particular ways put dice back in the bag
reroll dice and so forth but again these
things they're not the same three every
games now can't always rely on that same
tool that you use the last game to be
able to manipulate your dice now the
trick in these favor cards is that once
one player places a favour on them as
such every player then out for the rest
of the game has to place two on there so
it becomes progressively harder to use
the favors if you don't go to them early
but you don't typically want to go to
them early because as the game
progresses it gets harder and harder to
place the die that you need to place in
order to meet your private objective as
well as the public objectives and these
let you like manipulate those dice a
little better so going some later in the
game is way more beneficial than early
game one plus those are unused ones are
points of the game so yeah like Jeremy
said you want to hold on to those things
of course unless you make a bonehead
move like I have done in the beginning
of a game and really need to make some
adjustments before it gets too costly
out there once a round is over play just
moves to the next player in clockwise
fashion they start as a first player and
it progresses over ten rounds once ten
rounds is done you start adding up the
points not here's other points work
every favor token that a player has is
worth one victory
at the end of the game every windowpane
that is not covered by die loses that
player one victory points public
objective court cards will score out
depending upon if players meet those
objectives for instance one of the ones
we have here on the Left says that if a
column has four different colored dice
in that location they will score five
victory points for each column that they
have right and the last one is their
private objective for instance I have
the purple private objective so for
every purple die that I have the pit
count is how many points I will score so
if I'm placing a lot of sixes on the
board that are purple they can give me a
lot of victory points at the end of it
yeah this is an interesting part of the
game because you're wanting to
definitely keep track of what other
players are doing and if I see Jeremy
picking up every high value purple die
throughout the game I might get a sense
that he has the purple objective card
that also kind of plays into some of
these public objective cards because
right now we have a card that you gives
you points two points for every pair of
a1 and a2 so obviously that's going to
sort of contradict taking high value
pips Pip dice so let's get into the
review yeah absolutely
I I really like a lot of things about
the game the art style obviously is
gonna draw people in right away oh it's
a beautiful beautiful large game
beautiful box the dice are very colored
these components are amazing yeah having
the recessed boards and having the dice
fit in those locations and having the
slide in there to give the players the
variability at the start right is really
really good I like the tools I like any
kind of game that allows you to
manipulate your dice I hate dice that
once you roll them it is what it is and
this game has a lot of those options but
it doesn't have too many so you are very
very beholden by how many favorite
tokens you have so you have to use them
strategically throughout the course of
the game but the game plays really fast
you're playing this in 30 minutes so it
doesn't outlast it's welcomed by any
means no absolutely not and I think also
even even without the tools just the
fact that it is a dice drafting game
helps lower the impact of the negative
impact of look yeah you know because
you're drafting your dice so if you're
not if you don't see exactly what you
want on any given turn you can kind of
look around your board and find a spot
for some of the dice that are out there
generally except when it comes down to
the end of the game some
and you just need that green for you
can't roll it the other thing I really
like about this game is how the game
gradually ramps up
I love the puzzle aspect of trying to
both meet your private objective but
also trying to fulfill these public
objectives while you're trying to manage
this board that is locking you down you
have to be very very thoughtful by the
way you place your diet because you can
lock yourself out of positions by
placing as David said very early in the
video that if you place a number in the
wrong location that locks you out of a
color that you need to go to you're in
trouble right and you're gonna have to
use your tools at that point the only
thing that I don't like about the game
and this may just be me is that I feel
like after you've played this game I
don't know four or five times you will
have seen everything that you possibly
can see there's only 12 tools there's
five public objectives all our private
objectives all the private objectives
are four colors so there's no variance
and that other than trying to meet a
very specific color and then there are
ten public objectives I feel like with
one media expansion that allows for more
variety and your private objectives it
could be a very good game I would agree
with the fact that it's right for
expansion yes like you could just
continually come out with more
windowpane guards more tools all sorts
of different things
I still think though at the end of the
day the game while some of those
variable elements can you can get
through in a few games pretty easily the
game itself because you're drafting dice
because you're rolling dice that's gonna
be different every time because you can
take so many different things during any
given game it definitely has a lot of
replayability in my opinion plus I think
one of the greatest things about this
game is its extraordinaire aliy except
accessible yeah this is a great gateway
game it's beautiful to look at anyone
could play this I think so too I mean I
think I think an eight-year-old who can
obviously read it could play this game
they're gonna screw up but that's part
of the fun of solving these puzzles is
placing dice and learning from that and
I think this doesn't punish you too much
for doing that yeah um a great
opportunity to teach kids you know some
of the new the nuances of a game like
this particularly with these tools and
how you can use things to manipulate you
know mistakes you've made
yeah beautiful looking game guys this is
a grotto by floodgate games
congratulations to them it looks good
absolutely standing on the table if you
guys have any questions make comments
below please subscribe to us as always
follow us on Twitter like us on Facebook
and everything else that we do here at
man vs. meeple and we will catch you
guys next time bye bye
[Music]
[Music]
you
