TÍTULO: Sagrada - A "Chit" Chat Review by Amanda and Amanda | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: jLCThJFmWo4
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/137659/sagrada/sagrada-a-chit-chat-review-by-amanda-and-amanda
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
welcome to game reviews with Amanda and
Amanda this episode will be discussing
sagrada sagrada is a puzzle game in
which you are artisans competing to
create the most beautiful stained glass
windows and fun fact this is based on a
real cathedral that is in barcelona
spain mm-hmm let's talk about the
components alright so this game comes
with some really awesome pretty pieces
these are your player boards it's hard
to it's hard to see them on camera but
this whole part not that you this is not
really that important except it's very
beautiful
just just aesthetics just a really
pretty game these are the little puzzles
that you'll be working on they're double
sided the window pattern cards you put
them in here
and that's your little player board for
the game yeah so it's a slight different
add some variety each time you can play
a different window pattern card they
have different difficulties this one's a
level 5 because I've ever played with
higher than a 3 he goes all the way to
level 6 so mo you are up for a challenge
there's definitely difficult and easy
versions so you can play mm-hmm and what
else we have comes with these beautiful
cards and - of course these have
different um when you're playing the
game it can get really bogged down and
where you're able to play dice so you
can use these little favor tokens
they're like those little glass beads to
UM change your dice placement gives you
special rolls and they're different ones
that are out each game
[Music]
these are private objective cards which
can allow you to get points that are
secret so nobody else knows exactly how
many points you have based on whatever
color dice you are assigned you get
points based on the pips then everyone
has a different color I don't think
there are repeats and then there are zip
three per game goals for each game so
based on you get score extra points
based on placement of how the dice are
sort of laid out whether numerical or by
color so these are the public ejector
cards so like there are three in each
game so that also adds variety because
you draw them out randomly and then they
are usually just having to do with the
different colors of dice that you place
in your window or the different shade
that you place which somatically is
represented by the different number of
pips on each die and then here are the
nice
[Music]
really pretty bright color colors um
there they look like little pieces of
glass
um so fit perfectly within your window
paints so when it all comes together you
have a really pretty visually appealing
game board at the end and everyone can I
look around and see what other people
have created so what are the pros of
this game what are your favorite things
about it um it's beautiful it's really
fun - um - look out really makes you
think it's uh it's it's easy to teach
but I feel like you really have to think
hard about your strategy I just remember
the the few times I've played people
forgetting they're like oh no why did I
put it put a die there that's just gonna
shooter up my entire board easy to make
a mistake very easy to make a mistake
um the other thing I like about it is
that it has a single-player variant
which
has slightly different rules so on the
tool cards and instead of using
favourite tokens which are based on the
difficulty of your windowpane card you
will use the different dye that you roll
so you'll have four dye that you roll
each turn and then you will draft two
into your window and the other two you
can use to spend on these dual cards to
use their ability and any dye you don't
use will be added up at the end to be
the game's score that you're trying to
beat so a much different gameplay in the
single-player but also very fun and
enjoyable any cons anything you don't
like the dice tray the dice tray is
amazing yes amazing dice tray so what we
did not mention is that when you're
playing the game you roll two dice for
every player plus one extra so if Amanda
and I were playing right now I would
roll five dice and then I would draft
one bathroom
all right would draft one and then we'd
go back in reverse order then I get to
draft another one put it here give back
and then I take the last one and then
this one is just extra so you're doing a
lot of passing of dice especially good
length for yes especially with three or
four players there's a lot of passing
it's harder to reach if you just dump a
ball in the middle but this these are
only beautiful dice tray is fortunately
available in the Kickstarter why they
decided to do that and why icon a few
extra bucks why it's it's cardboard it's
really pretty too it's really pretty and
it's so useful I mean yeah you could use
like a play or something and it look
yeah
adds value to the game don't understand
yeah come on Kickstarter exclusives
people anything else other cons um AP if
someone really is looking for that dice
that
it's just not rolling they gets tend to
freak out I think Asian really
overanalyze what their what their
options are the analysis paralysis can
really bog down a short puzzle game
should be 30 to 45 minutes it can take
up to 660 ish with it could go longer if
ya if you're with the somebody who over
thinks every single drafting of every
single dice yeah it's a fun light game
let's keep it fun and light yeah yeah
the other thing I would consider a con
is how luck based it can be especially
when you're playing with fewer than four
people when you don't use every single
dice in the bag it can really depend on
the luck of which colored guy you draw
which numbers you happen to roll some of
that is mitigated with the tool cards
but not completely yeah it is yeah with
any dice game again its yeah this game
is just so diced apparent that if you
keep getting unlucky rolls and it's it's
not good yeah um the other thing is the
gameplay the theme are not really yeah
you could you could be you could be
doing anything you could be making
cobblestone pavements or mosaic pottery
and you could be really doing anything
placing different colors next to each I
love the theme yeah I think it's
beautiful but unique yeah it's not
necessary for a game play it doesn't
really add to the strategy of placing
your different dye in the panes but it
is pretty that's very pretty pretty it's
easy to teach I mean you could you could
you could get your grandma to play this
one I think the other con I would say is
the rule book is a little lacking I
would prefer it to be longer and have a
better explanation for some of
especially the tool cards they're not
all
especially easy to understand and it
would be nice if they had explanation
like a written out for all of the
different tool car news little key or
something yeah yeah we're gonna get your
skit on that mm-hmm
uh where would you play this where do
you see it fitting in your collection
would you add it to your collection
I definitely I'm waiting for a friend to
get bored of this game so I can buy it
from him because um I really like this
game
yeah and it's pretty cheap it's like
what 25 bucks or something so affordable
and for the quality of components that
you get the quality is amazing they're
very playability I think and you get
it's really easy we do a lot of events
with new board gamers or you know people
who are a little little less familiar
with board games so having the Hoppe so
having something like this in your
collection that you could bring is
you're not gonna get bored of it because
it's enjoyable and it's always different
and new players will also enjoy it I
definitely need to own this um I want a
Kickstarter copy so I can have that dice
tray will be fighting the same person
for this game Oh keep an eye on keep an
eye on the internet see if I can snag
one yeah one way or the other
um but I agree I mean I think this game
is a great puzzle the strategy is you
know pretty on par for a puzzle game I
would say um a lot of it is luck I think
it's easy to be bad at this game you can
make mistake you can make mistakes if
you're not thinking about if you're not
looking at your entire your entire
really hard when window card you're
gonna mess up because you can't the way
you place things is you can't place you
know you can't place certain ya die
in specific locations otherwise you will
not be able to cover up that one of that
color so you just you really need to
think long term in this game especially
the higher difficulty ones have a lot of
restrictions on which guy you can place
in which pain so it's easy to be bad
it's easy
to make a mistake and make it so you
can't place die then you have holes in
the needless points um it could be a
pretty mean game in that no but I feel
like it it's harder to be good at it
yeah because you can play a game without
making any mistakes have a completely
full game board at the end and still
lose the game because you just didn't
get what you needed yes I did forget
about the gold cards mmm during when I
was playing a game I although I had red
and all the red ones I took were like in
ones and twos
I just it it wasn't because you're so
dependent on what dice are available
you're not really thinking about these I
don't know how Airy they are in my
beauty and you know you tried playing a
game without these but I mean it's extra
points but yeah I mean that's the thing
though the private objectives I'm on the
fence about them because I add salt that
little extra strategy as far as if you
notice somebody taking a lot of high
value of a certain color you can kind of
assume that they have that private
objective and you can try to block them
um however it's just a lot of luck about
what comes out I played a game yesterday
where I had one if you only counted the
public objective cards but when you
looked at the private objective my
opponent got more than half of his
points out of just the private
objectives
he got 22 points just from that if I
added up every single pit of every
single die in my color in that game
there were 12 so there is just
absolutely no way that I could have
competed with that it's usually I feel
like that time the play is night it's
not my strategy to go for that maybe it
should be though yeah yeah and you know
better player could have maybe overcome
it but if there's it's new it's like
it's new we're still learning yeah
there's a lot of luck um but but yeah
definitely something's funny I check it
out super fun I play it and I
immediately want to play again yeah it's
one of those really addicting games it's
like it's almost like patchwork and that
not quite as well as graduate let's be
real but it's you know what might get
there well I'm in certain settings
patchwork only plays - that's true
Sagrada plays 1 to 4 super great game
check it out and if you liked our video
make sure to check out our main video
the chit chat and subscribe to our
Channel thanks so much thanks for
watching right
[Music]
you
