TÍTULO: Sagrada - unboxing and simplified play | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: jG-D9P8tKV8
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/133645/sagrada/sagrada-unboxing-and-simplified-play
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
Oh beautiful
[Music]
ha
[Music]
I don't know
[Music]
great that it the whole bunch of them
okay great
[Music]
I
[Music]
ah
[Music]
right my turn I'm going to choose a
purple right here yeah and I'm going to
put a green right here
[Music]
that looks good and that's why that's
the sixth time your turn that guy sorry
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh yeah
and my turn first right okay i'm going
to choose a green too and it's oh I
can't choose that no I have not chosen
very well here I'm going to choose a
comment yeah I'd like to choose blue
yeah you can but I'm not saying yeah but
I can't is 25 things we like each other
I'm going to choose laughing it up to 5
i'm going to choose i'm going to choose
the yellow one i'm going to fill left
[Music]
i'm gonna do the future
[Music]
man you can get another term
[Music]
so yeah I working ok man I got the last
one here i'm going to choose a blues for
ya all right i think that i think i walk
used to be a 5 because I don't think I
used to be that so i think and i will do
oh goodness me trouble there ok i'm
going to do a bread too and you get a
i'm going to do a loon it's like this
[Music]
right in your place every minute every
day and you literally like you have
anywhere to put it you can't put a 1
read anywhere right can you put the blue
6 anywhere stars a lot you know that's a
sixth sense because he goes to their not
to blues but you oh and that has to be
too so you have to pass yep okay and
we've got two turns left one two three
four five and my turn first my transfer
you I like the lace the way they were
rolled okay oh I'm in trouble ok so I'm
going to do a so I can't do that we have
to do play 60 I can't do that nothing I
can do there
it's like oh I can't believe it i'm
gonna pass Julia I'm gonna pass your
turn I can't do anything you can't
didn't see either cut you do here you go
yeah you could do the red sixer that
gets you six points love because don't
forget oh no you're doing oh you want to
pass on this so that you got a different
color now you've got to read or you can
put a yellow education did you get a
yellow 6 did you really okay then put
yellow sick okay okay and and i'm
passing see you anyway that's okay they
can be diagnosed okay so you can place a
another one even if your cover can you
do it or not it has to be a fork to know
how to see a force you can't do that one
so this has to be a 35 but you can't
place the yellow 5 because it would be
b5 side yo so yeah you have to pass to
okay one turn left there we go last turn
I'm first I'm going to place I'm going
to place the green one no can't do that
ah jeepers my goodness I'm not playing
well okay I'll place the green six your
turn
that was a short of the purple for love
I think you put the three now the fourth
doesn't go on a five but I think you can
place you were here one of those see I
got it it was a street ok so that's the
end of the game the oh I know I get to
you can choose another one if you can
but you can and can i choose another one
