TÍTULO: Sagrada - Playthrough | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: v_3g9vMiq5w
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/144279/sagrada/sagrada-playthrough
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hi everyone I'm Tom today I'm going to
be playing Sagrada this is a dice
drafting game all about building
stained-glass windows and that's what
these lovely player boards are
simulating here these are the windows
we're going to be using at the start of
the game you'll have your choice of two
double sided window cards I have just
gone ahead and picked some already you
also get a personal objective which will
be a color of dice so Marty who is
actually off camera right now he can sit
on his window there he is after a yellow
shades he's gonna get a point at that at
the end of the game for every pip on
yellow Daleks in his window and he wants
some yellows in his thing that's partly
why I picked that I want some blue as
well I didn't have any with loads of
blue in it so I've got some here though
I should be okay in around a Sagrada the
first player which will be me to start
with has the dice back and they will
draw some dots from it in a two-player
game you draw five dots and then roll
the dice this is an interesting dilemma
I haven't really left space for the dice
over so we have these dice available a
lot of yellow which is good for Marty
isn't it actually although low numbers
so not perfect now I will take the first
one then Marty will take one then Marty
again then back to me and it will switch
for each round as we pass the bag across
but that is basically the game you're
gonna pick one of these stocks your
first dice has to start in a corner or
an edge of your window so I am going to
I want blue so I want to make sure I've
got this and since I'm probably gonna
end up with a yellow later either if
these corners is fine I think I'm gonna
start over here now our restrictions in
the future are well you see these spaces
that have colors you have to put that
color there restrictions with the
numbers they have to have that number
there but in the future you cannot put
an identical color next to each other
orthogonal E or and I did identical
number which is the shade the numbers of
the shades in this game so you can you
can spread out adjacent diagonally as
well as orthogonal E but you have to be
aware of that so if I put anything five
there I'm not gonna be able to put it in
this but
that desperately needs one so you really
have to bear that in mind since there's
yellows are for right away Marty's just
gonna go for them oh we should pay
attention as well to these that are out
here these public objectives so we saw
our private ones to have these colors
there are also these public objectives
which at the end of the game we're going
to get six points for every row we have
that's complete and has no repeated
colors and then two points for each set
of threes and fours or five and six so I
have a four already so Marty definitely
wants to make sure he's got that three
there that yellow three and he's just
gonna place that up in this corner here
and the next one that he's gonna take is
not gonna be another yellow it's gonna
be a six because it's partly to do with
that but also if he'd placed it down
here he would have to put the red off
somewhere because if he put it there he
couldn't put a six in that corner
whereas here he's fit he's not filling
up the colors but he's filling up the
numbers okay we'll see though if enough
things come out to justify I'm doing
that later on so now there is just two
available I can use these tools as well
on my turn I can use one of the tools
the cost is a favor token now when we
picked our windows they have different
difficulties on them Marty's had five
mine had four so Marty's was more
difficult he gets more favor tokens it
costs a favor token to use any of these
if it's empty if anybody else has used
it previously it's gonna cost you two to
use it and they will do different things
like after drafting you can return the
dice of the bag and pull a new one out
to choose the value on it and put it
somewhere in your thing or put it in the
draft pool if you're trying to deny
somebody something after drafting
re-roll the die if it still can't
replace predict back in the draft pool
and move exactly two dogs obeying
placement restrictions so if I had if
Marty had messed himself up here by
putting over red six there he could move
it later with that laid Caen so my last
pick I am just getting one of these twos
I'm not gonna use any powers and the
remaining one goes on the RAM counter
here there's ten rounds so that shows us
that the first one is done so it's
Marty's turn he is gonna pick five dice
out and roll them and so we've got red
six purple six Green five yellow -
yellow one so a lot of yellows
but they're not really you know they're
not really high numbers for him in
keeping with the sexes he doesn't want
another red on this row anywhere but
he's gonna take this red six and he's
gonna place it there because maybe if
the green fives left he can take that
and put it in this corner here and it's
another six so he know he's got a set of
five and sixes so he's got you know a
set of six so that's two points at the
end of the game for me so I could take
two in a row now
and unfortunately for Marty that five is
looking really nice for me either there
or in my green space I think I'm gonna
take this green five and I'm gonna place
it here on this five space and then I'm
just gonna go for the six then I've got
sets of fives and sixes let's go let's
go towards this corner this corner
doesn't care about Purple's it means I
can't put a six in any of these spaces
now there and we come back to Marty he
oh he it's got a bit of a dilemma
actually because if he takes so this to
here is okay but if he wants to put that
yellow there in the future he is going
to lose his row color bonus he could use
a favor token does he want to I think
he's going to try it he's gonna use a
favor token he's gonna put this back in
the bag as long as it's not a yellow
he's okay it's a blue so now he gets to
choose the value and place it I think he
is going to choose four he's gonna
choose four and just put it up here
keeping the row variety and four is good
for medium shades as well so this is the
one that got left over that goes up
there and I am the first player again so
we need five dice one two three four
five and we roll them so what have we
got red 3 red 2 blue five green five
purple five I've just noticed that this
great idea of mine has put a green there
when I need a green there so we'll see
how that goes in the future maybe I'll
move that I'm going to take
this green 5 though is my first one and
I'm gonna put it actually I'm gonna take
the blue 5 because I want blues data for
my personal goal I'm gonna take the blue
5 and I'm gonna put it over here as long
as it stays a 5 now Marty he wants fives
he'd be very happy with fives
I think he's gonna just take this he
knows greens okay for me so he's going
to take that green 5 away and put it in
this corner here then he can take
something else but it's gonna have to be
the purple 5 I think because he can't
put Reds in any of these spaces and he
can't really yeah maybe he should put it
out here so he can start spreading out
yeah he'll place that there and then
it's to me I will take the 3 since that
counts for the medium shade and I can
just put it in my red spot there and
that's the end of another round Marty is
first again so he needs 5 dice and he is
going to sort of forgot he's got yellow
for green for purple to green to blue 5
so I think it makes sense for him first
to take this yellow for since he wants
yellows and that can just go down here
doesn't really matter because he doesn't
know that I've got that blue objective
so he wouldn't be trying to deny them
for me I think I'm gonna take this blue
5 and put it there it's ok to go there
and then I'm gonna take this green too I
think
and place it down there and now we are
back to Marty he are this a shame that
that's that's right next to there where
he's already put a purple he is gonna
take the green where shall he put it
it's a 4 so it comes as a medium shade
so that's okay he could put it up here
and start building in there or maybe he
just wants to put it in one of these
spaces I think he's going to put it
there so then he's got access to a few
more spaces as well and that is the
around four so I'm first again we're at
around five two three four five and
we're after blues we've got one blue
there so that's probably what I'm gonna
be taking if I can put it somewhere so
we've got a lot of reds so it's a blue
fire there's no particularly good place
for it but it could actually it can't go
there because of that Green five so
unless we want it rear old which are
dumb up I'm not that bothered so what
could we put out we could put out a six
and just have you know more towards the
deep shades I'm gonna grab this red six
and I think we'll put it up there
because if this red ones love the red
one couldn't go there then cut it what
if we took the purple five then the red
one could go there because it's okay
because it's diagonal it's not
orthogonal so we're allowed to have the
same number there okay and it's rows we
want different not columns so it's okay
that the Purple's are there Marty
no he's after Reds so I couldn't have
taken him away from him anyway so he
doesn't want to use the six I think he's
just gonna grab the two and the one and
fill those up or is he no I don't think
he is I've put a red there as well and
he's gonna have to put a red there you
do lose points at the end of the game as
well for having empty spaces he's gonna
he's gonna do this so he needs to move a
dice as well then it comes back to me I
don't want to place that so it's gonna
be have to be a six so the six can
either go up here or on the top let's
just place it down there and then we've
got that left over sometimes you can
take some things off here and they used
in the solo game as well so there is a
point to having these stars on as well
as tracking the rounds Marty's first he
needs one two three four five dice and a
lot of blue and red but low numbers in
the blue so it's okay
from our see anyway okay so he what does
he really wants he really wants yellows
but also twos and ones work out quite
nicely he's gonna grab this red five and
he's gonna place it but they're in that
five spot I could grab this for and it
could go up there in that four spot and
then either if these ones is okay and
might as well be the blow now if I take
the blue one I've already got a blue up
there so I think we'll take the blue two
and we'll put that on here I haven't got
a blue on this row yet I might end up
you know destroying that one of the rows
I'm sure you can't get all of them you'd
have to be very lucky to get all of them
as for Marty he wants one of these ones
and it can't be blue because it's
already a blue there so he'll take a
purple back to me lean first player we
need five dice and what do we get a lot
of yellow and green Marty we'll be
taking that yellow I think I flipped
that from a six
hopefully it's a six now anyway so I
could take this green too
and place it over there or I could take
this yellow three let's take the green
now we do want to think about what else
we're going to move if we want to use
this this to move a dice because we
don't want to greens we want this green
move it over there but you have to move
two dice Marty he can't take both of
these yellows which is good for me so
he'll take one and put it there and he
can actually take that green six and put
it in his corner space there and for me
I could just take this yellow for it
suits me fine and I can go in my yellow
space okay then
Marty again he's got five dice and
there's some good yellows there a yellow
six is perfect I think that's what he's
gonna take right yellow six in that
yellow spot there and for me I would
like a one in there so the green would
suit me yeah let's just do this I am
going to put this there let's say and
then I'm going to use a tool so I am
going to move this to there because it's
okay it's okay the restrictions and this
there so now we're sorted there's only
one green on each row and I can take
this yellow five sorry Marty and fill up
the five gap that I just made so I think
we're okay four rows again there Marty
he he can't put that green two in there
so he can either put the purple there
with a green there the Purple's are
three so he'd rather take the three but
it's really restricting what can go in
that two spot isn't it let's see I'm
first again one two three four five and
some brilliant blues but I've already
got I'm really full on blues see is it
worth giving up this because I'd get a
point for each pip if I could just I
could just fill spaces with blues
there's no threes to put there let's see
four here I couldn't put a five or six
or a three I could put a four there but
I've already got a yellow up here I
couldn't use a 5 or a 4 so it could be a
six I've already got those I need a
purple on there up here I need a red and
it can be a six so little except I'm
gonna take this red six
Marty is gonna grab this no he was gonna
grab that yellow six but he can't he can
have the purple six there the blue six
there that fits fine and then this
yellow for fits there he already got six
is blocking off taking a six I think
that's okay this last rounds gonna be
very very restrictive indeed and for me
I can not take this
five at all I can take the yellow it
would love it if it was a three though
is it worth spending two of these at one
of these to re-roll it and try and make
it a three it's a point if it's a three
it'll be so perfectly let's try see that
seems fake doesn't it there was no cut
there I'll make sure not to cut around
that although I suppose I could have
filmed the entire game every time until
I rolled a three anyway so that goes up
there and it's time for the very last
round one two three four five here we go
okay then so it's Marty first he wants a
- it can't be green can be blue there we
go that's fine then for me I see green
can't go that a purple is the only thing
that can go there it can't be a five a
three it's just fine and what color do I
need down here purple again but it can't
be five do I spend two points as long as
I don't roll a five a six or a three I
can put that purple there or do I just
because it's giving up six points and I
can't put one there let's go for it so
it can't be I want anything but six five
or three on this purple then it's a five
so still can't take it it goes back to
the pool which means I have to take this
and just give up on the Robo and a stand
there Marty cannot take either of those
dice but as long as he pulls out a red
or a blue from there he's going to use
the flux remover again or could he if he
could move some dice around yeah he
could pay to move dice so let's move
this one here and this one here does
that still all work out I think that's
still all okay
take the purple but he can take the blue
and there we go
so that is the end of the game so the
first thing we do is score all of this
can go away now slid away isn't it fancy
using a tripod and then we can score our
personal objective so Marty four shades
of yellow so he gets three nine twelve
sixteen twenty points from his yellows
and me for my Blues I don't think I took
many five ten fourteen sixteen so not
too far behind then the public
objectives so row color variety so that
is not one that is one that isn't that
is no no that's got two greens are
really ruined Marty's there so he gets
six points for that this could be the
end of the competition here I have got 1
2 3 so that is 18 points so it's 34 then
favor tokens Marty's got to favor tokens
left and you lose a point for every
spare space no I'm not doing all of the
objectives calm down so threes and fours
so for each set of three and four so
let's we can take them off now it
doesn't matter where they are so take a
good look at the lovely windows and
let's see we've got a set of 3 and 4 3 &
4 3 & 4
I think that's all of his sets yeah he's
got no more three so that's 2 4 6 points
and then four fives and sixes he's got
one two three four sets so that is eight
points so 42 so hopefully I don't get
many points from these threes and fours
let's see we've got one set there
another set there so I've got three
there so that's six and then fives and
sixes I've got one two three sets
okay then so that's six more points so
closer than closer than it was earlier
so 42 to 46 of the final score I've just
managed to get a bit of a nicer window
than Marty but that is sagrada if you'd
like to know what I think then you can
click on the link on the screen there
but thank you very much for watching and
I'll see you for the next game bye
everyone
