TÍTULO: Sagrada - How To Play, by Watch It Played | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: 0JLpaGHL8MQ
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/153248/sagrada/sagrada-how-to-play-by-watch-it-played
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
hi welcome to watch it played my name is
Rodney Smith and in this video we're
going to learn the one two four player
game sagrada designed by darryl andrews
and adrian adam escu and published by
floodgate games the construction of the
sagrada familia church began in 1882 and
it still continues to this day
you and the other players will be taking
on the roles of artists competing to
make the most beautiful stained-glass
window within this magnificent structure
so join me at the table and let's learn
how to play to set up shuffle these
private objective cards with a grade i
on the back and then deal one to each
player in this video we're gonna set up
a two-player game you may always
secretly look at your own private
objective but you must keep it hidden
from the other players each player is
now randomly dealt two of these
double-sided window pattern cards from
this shuffle deck they'll each pick one
pattern and one side and return the
other to the box the dots showing in
this corner will indicate how difficult
the pattern will be to work with but the
more difficult the more of these favored
tokens you'll receive which can aid you
during the game as we'll see later at
this time now take a number of these
tokens equal to those showing here now
take any one of these window frame
player boards and slide your chosen
window pattern face up into the bottom
of it like this then collect a matching
score marker each player should put
their score marker next to this round
track that you should also keep nearby
these are the tool cards which you'll
shuffle dealing three face-up into the
center of the playing area cards with
this back our public objectives that
you'll also shuffle and deal three face
up from all remaining tools objectives
and window cards can now be returned to
the box there are 90 dice included in
the game and they should be mixed into
this bag which you'll then hand to the
start player that person can be chosen
randomly or you could choose the person
who most recently visited a cathedral
either way that's the setup in sagrada
players will be collecting colored dice
that represent pieces of glass that
they'll fit within their window as they
try to create pattern
that will score them points at the end
of the game the game itself is played
over ten rounds at the beginning of each
round the first player will draw
randomly from this bag a number of dice
equal to twice the number of players
plus one so in our two-player game here
we draw five dice these are then rolled
into a central area and form the draft
pool now starting with the first player
and going clockwise around the table
every person gets one turn and once
everyone has had a turn that last player
now takes a second one along with
everybody else but this time going in
reverse order and on your turn there are
two different actions you can take once
each and in any order and neither are
mandatory so let's go back to the table
and I'll show you how they work one
option is to select one die and to do
this you pick one from the draught pool
here and place it into any empty space
of your personal window frame following
some important guidelines for example
the first die you pick must be placed
into one of the spaces that go around
the outside edge of your window then
every future die you collect must be put
into a space adjacent to a previously
placed died including diagonally so for
example on a future turn I couldn't go
here but I could go here here or here
now that said the spaces themselves may
have some restrictions based on the
colors or symbols that you see within
them for example if you see a red space
like this only a red die may be placed
into it likewise if you see a value also
known as a shade only a die with that
value showing on top may be placed there
and a white space like this can contain
any value or color however no matter
what color or value a space contains a
die may never be placed so that it
shares a full side with a die of the
same color or same value for example
while this space could normally hold any
type of die I couldn't place either a
green more value for die here because it
would share a full side with this one
which is also green and also for
matching colors or values can be placed
diagonally adjacent however so this
purple one
can be diagonally adjacent to this
purple one if while playing you ever
discover that a person's window breaks
any of the placement rules they must
immediately remove dice of their choice
from their window returning them to the
box until all the rules are correctly
obeyed for example in this situation we
can see we have dice of the same color
and value adjacent to each other so the
player might remove this one the other
action that you can also take on your
turn if you want to is to use one of
these tool cuts and you'll do this by
placing one of your favorite tokens onto
an empty card and resolving its ability
for example this one says that after
drafting a die you can flip it to the
opposite side before placing it within
your stained-glass window now if a tool
already has favor tokens on it you may
still use it on your turn but you'll
have to spend to favor tokens to do so
in other words when a tool is first used
it'll cost one favor and after that two
favors each time so those are the two
actions selecting one die and or using
one tool and you can do that in either
order and you can choose to perform only
one or neither of those actions if you'd
like and after everyone has performed
one turn in clockwise order and then one
more turn in counterclockwise order it's
the end of the round you now put all
remaining dice from the draft pool onto
the leftmost empty space of this round
track and it is possible that you might
have more than one die left over if
someone didn't select a die during their
turn and in that case the leftover dice
are stacked one on top of each other the
dice bag is now passed clockwise and
that person will be the first player for
the next round that said if you've just
completed the 10th round the game ends
and it's time to score first you clear
this round track and then flip it over
having players use their score markers
here to keep track of their points if
this would ever cause them to go past 50
points they flip their token over to the
50 side and continue counting from the
beginning first you gain one victory
point for each favor token that you
didn't use for each public objective
where you've completed its instructions
as printed here at the bottom you'll
gain its indicated points here and you
can even score the same
card more than once if you satisfy its
requirements multiple times in different
ways within your window for example
you'll score six points for each row
that you have that doesn't have
repeating colors so looking at our
stained glass here this would include
the very top row as well as the bottom
row for a total of twelve points now
reveal your private objective and score
points for it as well this says that I
sum together the values of all of the
green dice within my stained glass
window and add that to my total score so
in this case fifteen more points
finally you remove one victory point for
each open space within your window for
example if I hadn't had dice in these
spaces and I would now subtract two
points from my total now the person with
the most points wins and in the case of
a tie the tied player with the most
points from their private objectives
wins and if still tied check for who has
the most favored tokens left if still
tied the player seated furthest from the
first player in clockwise order during
that final round is the winner the game
also includes rules for solo play but
I'll leave those for you to discover on
your own otherwise that's everything you
need to know to place the grata now if
you have any questions at all about
anything that you saw here don't
hesitate to put them in the comments
below and I'll gladly answer them as
soon as I get a chance but until the
next episode thanks for watching
[Music]
you
[Music]
