TÍTULO: Sagrada Review - with Tom Vasel | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: kL-seAlTBW8
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/133792/sagrada/sagrada-review-with-tom-vasel
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
and now it's time for another Dice Tower
review with Tom
vassel hey folks sometimes you see a
game that makes you just stop and look
at it and I believe that's the case of
Sagrada this is a really beautiful cover
it's a game about making those beautiful
stained glass windows in cathedrals and
again this is one of the times where I
applaud in a sense because I like this
theme but what makes the seem even
cooler is it's using piles of colorful
dice beautiful dice they're really nice
Dice and you're going to be drafting
these Dice and building your own stained
glass window now the theme isn't that
strong right it's just about placing
dice it's a drafting dice game where
you're taking Dice and trying to place
them inside your window matching numbers
matching colors trying to get the
highest score that you possibly can
let's take a
[Music]
[Applause]
look each player is going to get one of
these starting boards and they're
different colors and they're beautiful
they don't really matter though what
matters is players are going to get
these cards and you're going to decide
which side of the card to use and the
cards have different values But
whichever side you use so for example
this side has a value of six this side
has a value of four this one is easier
than this one however if I use this one
I will get six favor tokens as opposed
to four if I only use this one whichever
one you do decide to use you're going to
stick it so that it pulls up into your
and you can see the different spots here
some have colors and some have numbers
each player is going to be given a
secret objective card which shows what
color is worth more to them so you know
that you're going to be going for a
specific color there's going to be some
public objective cards that are placed
here and these are going to score points
at the end of the game so for example
here you get six points for each row
that has no repeated colors so one of
every color in a row this one here you
get two points for every set of three
and four you can find in your thing and
this one here count all diagonally
adjacent same color dice so here you can
see these dice are are adjacent to each
other diagonally you're also going to
have some tool cards placed out these
tool cards going to be cards that
players can use on their turn to do
various things uh to kind of manipulate
your dice so you saw on the drop there's
a lot of dice in this game there's
actually 90 dice here and so each round
of the game one player is going to pull
Dice from the bag so let's say it's a
three player game you're going to pull
seven how do I know it's seven well two
times the number of players plus uh one
for one extra one so here we have our
seven dice that person will roll those
dice those dice will be placed where
everyone can see it and then the start
player is going to draft one of these
dice they're going to take one dice and
place it in their Cathedral or they can
pass and just get rid of it um then the
second player will take one then the
third player then the third player takes
another one then the second player then
the first player and then the last gu
you put here and this helps keep track
of the rounds of the game you also on
your uh turn have a opportunity to use
one of these tools you can use your
favor tokens that you have they'll be on
your window here when you put a a tool
when you use a tool the first person use
it only pays one the next person use it
pays two etc etc keeping these are worth
points at the end of the game so you
only want to use a tool when it's really
important and will help you out as you
can see this one here says after
drafting flip it to the opposite side
that can be prettyy handy or roll dice
in a draft pole um or here move anyone
down your window ignoring the color
restrictions speaking of color
restrictions let's take a closer look
here at the window when placing dice the
first die has to go somewhere on the
outside so maybe I want to place this
die here a five purple now whenever you
place a die if in the future it has to
go next to this die so when you go next
to this die so I can see I can go here
or here there will be restriction in
some of the spots so for example here
there's no restriction it can be
anything except it can't be a purple and
it can't be a five because you can never
have two of the same color next to each
other or two of the same number next to
each other so this six red could
legitimately fit there this blue four
can go here next to the six because this
has to be a four it doesn't matter what
color it is it just has to be a four and
then next to that you can see it could
be a three but it can't be this blue
three why because this is a blue here
this is a red it doesn't matter what
number it is as long as it's a red
although again a red four won't fit
there because there is a four there but
I could put this red six there and
that's fine and then maybe a purple five
would go here and then a purple three is
going to go here so you're going to try
to fill this in as much as you possibly
can once 10 turns have gone by everyone
is then going to take each of the public
objective cards and see if they can
score for them so let's say for example
I
had well not the let's say this was my
bottom row you can see there's one of
every color in that bottom row and that
gives me a bonus of six points if I was
going for purple I would be doing pretty
well because I'm going to get the sum of
all the values on purple dice so that's
13 on the purple Dice and let me look
here this hopefully this would not be my
ending position because I would
hopefully have filled in more spots
every three and four so here's a three
and four there's a three and four
there's a three but no matching four so
I have two sets so I get another four
points and then this one says count
diagonal adjacent of the same color so
the number so here I have two purples
next to each other diagonally that's it
so that's another two points for this
one and then you add up your points the
way you're going to add up points is
you're going to take this which was used
to keep track of the rounds you flip it
over and each player puts a score marker
on it and keeps track of their points
most points is the
[Music]
winner so I already production the
production in this game is just gorgeous
from the stained glass windows to once
it's full of dice it looks good to the
cards are high quality to the Box you
have a nice bag for the dice the whole
thing just is like wooo and when people
walk by they're like what are you
playing so that's good the game itself
is also a simple game I don't mean that
it's simple as and simplistic it's it's
easy to play but there's a lot of you
know different things going on but what
I mean is it's like hey take a die put
it next to the dice you already match
the numbers and the colors or don't
match the numbers and the colors but
match them to your grid and that's
pretty easy for people to understand if
there's any confusion with the game it
would come probably from the tool cards
and knowing when to use them because
it's kind of a odd concept okay the
first person to use it it's cheaper but
if you use it early I mean you might as
well use it early on your turn you can
draft one die or you must draft one die
or discard it and then you can use a
tool and using tools early is great but
the problem is you don't need them as
much early you'll need them way more as
time goes by because your grid is
starting to fill and you're like okay
for this spot I need a blue three or a
red three only two ones that will fit
here and sometimes I need a blue three
well the chance of a blue three being
rolled isn't very high but maybe with
those tools you can manipulate it
however other people have used those
tools so you might be down to just a few
of these favor tokens left and that's a
good mechanism and that might be the
only thing that would trip off new
people as they come in uh but other than
that the drafting of the dice is a
pretty simple thing and you're going to
put it there so that's really the fun of
the game the game is a simple one this
could be nominated for shars honestly
that's that that's the style of this
game I don't know if it can be because I
don't know if it was produced in Germany
but I'm saying it feels that way this
feels like a a Gateway game a game you
can say hey sit down let's just play a
game we're going to pull dice we're
going to roll dice we're going to draft
these dice put them in here going to
build a beautiful sang glass window and
that's great it's a it's it's a game
with a hook uh it's fun and easy to get
into you can decide whether to build a
harder window or an easier window you're
going to sit there and try to match the
goals on the table match the goal in
your hand so every that it comes out
you're like hm which day should I take
but it's not too long we're talking 30
45 minutes it it scales well plays two
three or four players I wonder I wonder
why they didn't add the fifth player but
you know either way it it's it's good
now it's going to be compared to other
dice drafting games there isn't many of
them the one that came out last year is
role player and I've actually had a
chance to play this and role player back
to back and I think role player is a
better game there's more involved but I
can see myself bringing this one out
just as much because first of all the
theme of this is going to appeal to a
lot of people role player is a great
theme but it's going to appeal to people
who want to build characters and
Dungeons and Dragons this will appeal to
anybody this is a game that I could
bring in my family and they would like
it um also this one is just a
wonderfully gorgeous production and it's
simple and easy to teach so if you're
looking for something that's different
theme-wise that looks great on the table
but is also interesting and easy to play
but offers some pretty devious choices
sometimes she'll sit there and go you
want to be the first person to draft
which means when you're then you're the
last one to draft so you're picking
between two dice or if you're the third
or fourth person to draft it's not so
bad because you're going to get two dice
in a row I like that concept it works
well certainly a game to check out and
it like it feels like a breath of fresh
it's like yeah this is the kind of game
publisher should be making good job on
them sagata Dice Tower judgment approved
thanks so much for watching The Dice
Tower videos find more great videos and
reviews as well as our toprated audio
podcast at dice tower.com you can also
find other great shows at dice toow
network.com I'm Eric summerer and you've
been watching the dice toow The Dice
Tower is sponsored by cool stuff Inc
where you can find great games for great
prices cool stuff in stock check them
out at coolstuffinc.com shut the door
m
