TÍTULO: Sagrada - Unboxing | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: eQOGVm1AvK0
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/133492/sagrada/sagrada-unboxing
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
welcome thank you for joining me grade
board game we're here with the unboxing
of my latest Kickstarter fulfillment
sagrada from floodgate games let's get
the plastic off get this box open and
see what's inside
got the plastic off see if we can get
the top off now Oh sounds like it's
slide nice and easy see what we have
inside the box it looks like a pretty
simple to follow rulebook because that
is it just four pages front to back I
like the way that looks nothing rule
heavy one we got some cardboard the
colors on this great
it's sticking car was sticking together
a little bit there
I haven't watched any videos on gameplay
yes I do not know what each of these is
for these player boards
those are didn't get to focus there we
go
see those are quite thick you got these
open windows so you're gonna have to
slide some cards in there I like the way
those are set up those are sturdy
there's really good material on those we
got the four different player boards at
the Kickstarter exclusive board again
the colors and the details and all of
these are great I know my my wife has
had her interest piqued by this one she
was one of her degrees as a degree in
fine arts so she was intrigued when she
saw me opening this up and here are the
cards we get the plastic off of these
those were tricky to get the plastic off
because it was vacuumed on there tight
there was not a loose corner anywhere so
I had to be real careful not to damage
the cards because they're not a real
heavy cardstock but they really don't
have to be because judging by what I saw
on here these are going to slide into
the player cards there we go
and they don't need to be sturdy because
they're insighting really thick sturdy
player boards so those get in there nice
everything looks like it lines up great
so the printing was done printing
alignment was done properly several
different cards so lots of different
ways
to complete it I have a couple of
cardboard tokens here and these look
like the score tokens for the different
players one side just the regular color
and then 50 then there's a Kickstarter
players token I have a box of plain
clear our bag of plain clear glass beads
we have another another deck of cards
and the like Gaudi Cathedral these cards
had a loose corner on them so they were
a little bit easier to open not sure of
course
what they're for because I haven't
played the game yet or watched any
videos on it but the cart design now
these cards the dolt slide in appear to
be a well maybe not maybe they are the
same kind of stock now they feel a
little bit heavier I might just be
fooled because they're a smaller card
but they feel to be a little more sturdy
since they're not going to be slid
inside a dense player board and we have
a small bag a large bag and a whole
bunch of dice which
not the main selling point to me I
enjoyed seeing a different kind of theme
there but hey you're gonna get me when
you give me a huge bag of multi colored
translucent dice and I believe that's it
unless there's something hiding
underneath the plastic inserts which
there is not there we go that is the
unboxing I'm gonna get that back in
there without breaking it there we have
the unboxing of sagrada from floodgate
games please take a moment to click on
these links and consider supporting this
channel through patreon don't forget to
Like share subscribe comment and check
out the other videos on my channel your
support is appreciated and I'll see you
in my next video
