TÍTULO: Sagrada — Gen Con 2016 | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: GMeu2GbirqI
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/108217/sagrada/sagrada-gen-con-2016
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
he said you're ready internal affairs
hi I'm Stephanie straw with
boardgamegeek and I am joined by Ben
Harkins Oleg eight games haven we're
going to be talking about sigurado just
saying that I am very looking forward to
so please tell me about this amazing
game so sagrada is a game by Darrell
Andrews and then your designer Adrian
msq and this is a game of dice drafting
and window crafted you're building a
stained glass window I did that's very
intensive I appreciate that so in this
game each of us are artisans helping
complete the stained glass windows at
the Sagrada Familia the installation in
Barcelona okay so we start with our own
stained glass window that's an actual
place in our syllabus it has this
amazing stained glass you got it i
believe it was inspiration to the
designers yeah for for this game so it's
really great when a game kinda has the
theme girl up with the mechanic says
yeah as it's going so here we go we've
got each of the players that are going
to start with a window that has some
plans on it for where specific colors or
shades of dice need to go we've got
these little 3d printed prototype or a
prototype now I know everything here is
prototype the arts pretty darn close to
final but things could still change
gameplay wise what we do is each round
the star player grabs grabs dice pulls
them
and we're going to be taking turns
drafting these dice to place them on our
card let's say I was the star player I
can place tight nice on my card such
that you could place any die in a light
space or you have to end up matching the
colors or shade restrictions that are on
the dice Ben numbers you got a shade
represented by the pips on the dice see
you know what you want to pick that one
sure i'll pick that one and then
Stephanie go ahead and draft board I'm
gonna do
I think I'm gonna do this great matching
there and it's a snake draft so you
actually get to draft again yeah and I'm
going to take
this six from you super you'll have to
build out your window starting from the
from the spaces that you started on kind
of progressing out so it'll need to
touch you you said yep you got it thanks
that was that was on purpose i know i
mean i'll give you the rules as you
break them you should i'm gonna take
this yelps you need more of those and
put that there very good and then now
yeah I'm kind of stuck here but I'm
gonna try and go with this purple and
meet that requirement drink you're gonna
build out you got it so that's the end
of the drafting we're going to take the
the final die and that goes on around
track which I don't have here and so
there's ten rounds in the game you can
notice that we each draft two dice for
around and we'll be building out our
windows mm-hmm a couple things about
that first of all why in the world are
we doing this we're dating this cuz it's
fun this one done already exactly the
goal of the game is to gain victory
points we've got variable victory point
conditions per game so we've got three
different ones that are out here roll
color varieties so for every row that
you don't have repeated colors you're
going to gain six points at the end of
the game for every column that doesn't
have repeated shades the number on the
die you're getting there are these five
colors in there right you got it only
five colors and then for each for the
longer diagonals that you have on your
board where where the colors are
touching yeah you're going to gain
points for how long those are ya so
we're going to eat to be working toward
these private objective are these public
objectives reach also going to start
with a public and a private objective
card okay that will keep secret from our
opponents please give us on their
private yep these give us a color to
strive to strive for and we're going to
count the number of pips of that color
at the end of the game so okay we all
no what we're each going for on the in
the public realm but then we each have a
and after I wanna type in blue you got a
sin my window as you're keeping that in
mind for the other goals so now we'll
pass on to the next round the whole dice
bag passes to the player on the left
yeah and now you'll draw five dice in a
two-player game and roll bows lots of
blues that's good for me good for you
but I don't know that yeah great and now
you'll stuck the draft yeah and so I
still have to be touching your diagonal
tech diagonals just fine okay however
there's a rule where you can never have
two dice next to each other of the same
color or the same number okay so i could
not place these two next to each other
you got it cuz they're both blue I'm you
got it I'm gonna do that I can I that
perfectly fine and then you'll get to go
twice yeah I'll get to go twice I'm
gonna do a diagonal move as well I'm
gonna try and jump over here just to
kind of give myself quite a few options
as we're branching out yeah and all the
draft is back to you
and you'll notice that as you're
drafting these nice you start to get a
many more restrictions on the board with
what's allowed to be placed where yeah
actually stone in this though you got it
okay I'm gonna give myself more options
exactly spread out but you'll notice
since we require a red dye there by
placing a red x next to it but I can't
oh I can't place a run at all yeah you
won't be able to place the red dye next
to that square in my future gotcha yeah
so not such ever or color exactly why
can I not place that there yeah because
because there are two fives next to each
other again I know I know oh this is a
perfectly valid move and i would suggest
actually doing that lap into that yeah I
think that's my only mode so in the
future you're gonna you're gonna need to
put a red dye there it's perfectly fine
to do that now so you'll end up in these
tight situations I won't be able to
better read there exactly so to help
mitigate that we have these tour cards
ok are available here and that was my
Segway that was on purpose well done
so each player starts with some of these
favorite segments and these help you
break the rules and interesting ways so
what you can do in the future spend one
of those tokens to use this Egla mice
brush where you can move one of your
dice and avoid the color restriction
that's on your window okay you'll spend
these if you're the first player to use
it you'll spend one and once there's a
one of these tokens on there it costs
any other player two of the tokens to
use it so you're encouraged to use it
exactly and you're encouraged to use
them early and not really you got it
maybe not as often okay so we've got a
whole bunch of these variable tools that
help guide your strategy as you're going
and give you ways to manipulate the
gameplay that way so as you can see
we're going to draft to die spur round
that guy goes back to the round trip and
the dice bag passes and you don't get to
go again you got it and you play through
that plank your challenge until you win
yeah by having the most points exactly
which you're you're well on the way to
winning count the points by this yet
you'll tally up points for each of the
three public scoring industry how much
what the score is so this one kind of
depends on how many help yep you're
working your way to a diagonal here and
we look at column shade variety which
would depend on how how you fill out
your
your window as you go and then likewise
40 color variety you have a little
scouring pad where you'll tally up your
score yeah highest scoring players the
winner yeah and it's just these this is
the only points there's nothing else
aside from that you'll you'll lose
points for each space that you're
missing on air on your window so it
encourages you to fill it up plus it's
just a really satisfying feeling to fill
out your whole stained glass window
exactly how many points do you loose
just one for free treats its square and
I'd love to show that these window
frames are gonna be a large spire yeah i
was looking at earlier yeah each of the
each of the window patterns is going to
be a doubled up card with four different
difficulties so you'll be able to select
early on how how difficult you want the
game to be getting more favor tokens for
playing a more difficult card and these
will slide right in and give you the
little lettuce to build with it as you
go and that is so cool thanks we're
really happy with this one I have talked
about this thank you I I'm gonna rock
this game so we're gonna be on
Kickstarter starting mid-september and I
would really love to have everyone's
support as a backward do you have
anything special you're doing for
kickstarter I've got some plans nothing
ready to announce yeah
like just a little bit maybe just a
little something we're planning on
having a deluxe version that might be
pretty fancy so it's that's the most i
can share right now awesome and ting
starter win sep tember 12 is the plane
right now timber 12 is what we're hoping
a corsa grata to pick certain and you
you're welcome to go to floodgate
gamescom and we'll have a little email
list reminder you promise not to spam me
too much yeah so please check it out and
that is segreta thank you mental thank
you thank you
