TÍTULO: Sagrada - Play Through, by Watch It Played | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: w6mWCDnfLwc
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/155766/sagrada/sagrada-play-through-by-watch-it-played
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey everybody welcome back to watch it
played my name is rodney smith and this
is pat mcdonald and we're here to begin
our playthrough of sagrada glass panes
of the 13th century yes the subtitle if
you had totally had me for a second I'm
like that sounds pretty good so close so
close yes that we've we've done
everything I think we've we've gone to
Mars we've built incredible artistic
galleries we have fought as fancy heroes
and now we're making stained-glass
windows yeah I didn't expect this theme
listen anyone who thinks ah there's not
a theme up there for me I beg to differ
there's a theme for everything right
that's gotta be thing for everything
pretty much isn't this time we're gonna
be building these beautiful
stained-glass windows if you don't know
how to play sagrada we do have a
tutorial video fourth you can check out
we're a link to that in the description
of this video and i thought this would
be a nice way to do pet because it's
gonna be kind of quick and i know you're
feeling a little under the weather
people might not realize but you can buy
a little bit of a cold that's why i
picked green today boogers really we're
making a booger joke here yeah and i'm
blue
but i'm feeling good it's not has none
to do with my feeling you know I'm
feeling really pretty happy about this
I'm looking forward to this only also I
should mention did pre pick out our
pains oh yes you get dealt two of these
with double side you pick the one you
want choose your pain my pain might be
painful it's one of the more complicated
one has five of the dots what about you
I mean yeah I picked a five dot as well
okay so we're even-steven there we also
have our private objectives already
dealt or see mine no we're not allowed
to look at each other's and we also have
the the public objectives and the tools
that we can use so maybe we should go to
the table and just show everyone what
we've got yeah let's do it all right the
first one we have here is called color
diagonals and you'll get one point for
every windowpane you have that is
diagonally adjacent to another matching
colored windowpane next up is medium
shades now that's gonna give you two
points for every set of three and four
in your window and finally we have
Collin color variety and this is gonna
give you five points for every column
where you don't have colors repeating
within it and what if the column isn't
actually filled like you only have three
dice in there oh that's a good question
if the column isn't filled then you
can't score it for choice of tools we've
got flux brush which after you draft it
lets you reroll the drafted
now if you can't place it you just have
to throw it back in the pool the next
one's called cork back straight edge and
this allows you after you've drafted to
die to put it anywhere within your
windowpane following the normal rules
except it does not have to be adjacent
to other dice you've already placed and
next up is lens cutter now this one's
neat because after you draft you can
swap the die that you drafted with one
from the round track
well pepp you might not like this but
the way the game recommends that you
picked the first player is to have the
person who most recently visited
Cathedral go first oh that's definitely
it is I was just in Germany recently and
I got to see a whole bunch of amazing
cathedrals and they had incredible
stained glass windows in fact I feel
like I might have a slight advantage
here I have recent inspiration to draw
from that you don't have I am fantastic
with colors though so you're colorblind
I don't like it I forgot about that this
could be very interesting for you okay
so as the first player I have a bag full
of dice here and I have to draw five out
which we will then roll into the dice
tray oh one thing I should mention
before we continue is that this dice
trade doesn't actually come with the
game well you stole this no path I
didn't steal it - this is a promo item
you can pick up from floodgate games
actually this entire window pane here is
also one of the promo ones it's very
pretty
well thank you and there's nothing
particularly unique about it you
certainly don't need either these items
to play the game but they are kind of
nice little upgrades so now Pat as the
first player I will get the first pick
of the dice here that have been rolled
and I think I will choose this blue one
right here and I'll slot it into the
position here on the edge now remember
your first eye has to go in one of the
spaces on the outside edge and I matched
my blue dye to a blue space
now on this two-player game perhaps
gonna get to take the next two dice and
then I'll get the last choice this is
amazing so first up I'm gonna take this
red die and place it here well I think
you might have made a tragic mistake
there yes yes you're right I mean I want
to place it here okay that's good
because if you put the five here the
only guy that can go here is a five and
you can't put fives next to each other
that was a close one
so what do you wanna do for your second
die the next one I'm going to place this
purple one right here alright well from
my pick I'm gonna take this green one
and plop it here in the bottom corner
and the last I will go here on our round
track and that's one round down
alright well prep gets to be the active
player now so he draws the dice let's do
it you get first choice here Peck what
do you think well I cannot resist the
majesty of this other purple diet that
all
right into here and this raises a good
little rule point remember you cannot
have dice adjacent to each other that
are the same color or the same number
but that does not count diagonally so
those are fine well for my first pick
I'm gonna grab this green six and slide
it right into that position
for my second pick I'm gonna grab this
blue three and place it there right and
I have to go last so I'll just take this
yellow five and don't stick it right
there which ends the round making Rodney
the active player so far my windowpanes
kind of boring only two colors in there
you've got three colors going I gotta
brighten things up all right so this is
my chance to add a little bit of color
I'm gonna take the yellow five and place
it here on the space looking for or five
it's always rough being the first player
knowing that you're gonna get two dice
back-to-back and one of them I
especially love I'm gonna take this
purple four and slide it right into
their and also grab this blue two it'll
put right here your stained glass window
is Bluetooth you're ridiculous
maybe a little bit I'm going to take
this dye here the one and I'll place it
in this space that requires a one that
will end my turn and it will also end
the round so this will go here
alright pep this means you get to go
next well I hate to break it to you but
this means you will not get to place
another purple for this round ah darn it
your streak has been broken
alright then instead I'll take this red
one I'll just put it over here all right
so my first pick will be this red four
I'm gonna place it here in the space
that requires a four and then I think
I'll take this blue four and I will
place it here I'm very methodically just
filling in the bottom if I windowpane
very organized in my method I noticed
that I'm a lot more sporadic if you're
all over the place I gotta try to get
this corner over here filled in so I'm
gonna take this green one and then that
will end the round alright well we're
moving right along here and it's my turn
to roll the dice which means I also get
first pick I'm have to break my find
pattern here and instead I'm gonna place
one out of line at the bottom up here is
a purple three oh you took my purple is
that what you wanted I did
well I'd left you with some other
options there I'm sure you'll find
something you like and don't forget you
also have the ability to use these tools
and potentially grab one of the dice
that are up here at the top I must say
I'm green with envy at your pains so I'm
gonna take this green and place it here
and then I'm gonna take horrifying pun
this green place
okay we'll have a little jealous of your
high technology windows so I'm gonna
install some Bluetooth into mine as well
which will end this round and move us on
to the sixth round all right now it's
time for me to roll well there is a
purple one sitting there if you wanna
know that's a purple to know we're going
to end this soon well before we do I
need to actually take this blue three
and place it right there you know I
think we have reached sort of a critical
level of puns in this episode already I
think we should stop here and what we'll
do is we'll let the audience make the
choice what what to dice I should pick
next it stick around until the end of
this video because we'll give you a
quick overview of the different
components here to help you make an
informed decision about what I should be
doing for my turn and I'll also give you
a sneak peek at my private objective and
don't forget there are some tool cards
you can use as well perhaps to smash
Roz's windows don't smash languages I
want you to help me make my windows
better give me your suggestions in the
comments below and if you like what
someone says give them a thumbs up if
you don't like it propose your own
suggestion maybe that will get the most
votes which everyone does
that's what come back and do but until
the next episode thanks for watching
[Music]
[Music]
