TÍTULO: solomode games - Sagrada solo session | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: 0jW26nL5zFQ
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/137511/sagrada/solomode-games-sagrada-solo-session
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hi Mike policia from solo mode games
here today I'm going to do a solo
session of the game sagrada this is from
floodgate games and designers darrell
andrews and adrian adam sq sagrada is a
dice drafting and placement game where
you are trying to create the most
spectacular stained-glass window that
you can you do this by choosing color
dice rolling them drafting them
following some placement rules utilizing
some card tools that allow you to
manipulate and mitigate some of the dice
rolls to try to create the most
spectacular stained-glass window that
you can this is a game that is very
quick to learn it's easy to teach it
plays very quickly especially in the
solitaire mode you can be done in 20
minutes in most cases and I think you'll
get a pretty good idea of how the game
plays here in just a moment so let's go
to the table and take a look okay here
we have the solo set up for sagrada game
where we are trying to create the most
spectacular stained-glass window the
setup is very simple we have a round
marker here a round tracker that goes
from 1 to 10 we've got 5 tools that I'll
explain in a moment we've got 2 what are
called public objectives and 1 what is
called a private objective in the
multiplayer game that private objective
would be kept
obviously private it would be kept in
your hand but there's no reason to have
it private in the solo game it just
stays face-up like the public objective
to do and then we've got our frame where
we're going to have our dice placement
and our actual player board which is
going to slip into that frame in a
moment I want to explain something
really quickly beforehand this is the
player board this is where we're
actually going to be placing the dice
once they are drafted it has a name
which is really just there for flavor
and then you see a number of dots here
in the number of dots corresponds to the
difficulty
lower number of dots the easier it is to
place your dice now the solo game is
quite difficult I have not won yet and
so I went with the lowest difficulty in
the multiplayer game those dots not only
correspond to difficulty they correspond
to the number of what you'd call favor
tokens that you would get favor tokens
in the multiplayer game are used to
purchase activate use of those tools in
the multiplayer game rzb in the solo
game there are no favor tokens so you
purchase those through drafting dice and
I'll explain that in a moment so let me
go ahead and place this in the frame and
then I'll explain how the basic round
structure goes okay we're going to have
ten rounds as I mentioned each round I'm
going to draw randomly from the bag
four dice two of those dice are going to
be hopefully placed in my window the
other two are going to go one of two
places they're either going to go onto
one of these tool cards to pay for its
ability or they're going to go up here
on the round marker at the end of the
game the score that I'm trying to beat
is going to be the total number of pips
on the dice here so really generally
speaking you want to put low value dice
up here because you don't want it to add
up to a whole life Alecto a whole lot
and you also want to use all five of the
tools if you can not only do they
usually help you manipulate the dice and
mitigate some bad rolls but they also
are dice that don't get added towards
the total that you have to beat alright
so let me quickly explain the placement
rules because then the tools will make a
bit more sense here you can see a couple
of different things you see colored
squares and you see numbered squares all
right the colored squares simply mean
that any dice you place there have to be
of that color so these have to be red
that could be any value these have to be
yellow purple and blue these are called
shade restrictions and these
our number so you have to have a four
there but it could be of any color to 6
and 1 respectively ok
the first dice that you are seeing the
first die you place has to be along an
outer edge then the other placement
rules is that dice has to be placed
adjacent to each other so for example if
I placed my first die here
the next die I place has to be in one of
these five spots it can be diagonal as
well as orthogonal ok the other
restrictions in placing dice are that
you cannot have two of the same colors
next to each other and you can't have
two of the same numbers next to each
other and that is only orthogonal so for
example I would not want to place a red
to here because if I place a red to here
although it fits the shade restriction I
could not place a die here because you
can't have two Reds next to each other I
also wouldn't be able to put a two here
here or here of any color ok so those
are some basic restrictions that apply
you don't have to worry about it
diagonally but orthogonal E that's
something you have to keep in mind
so let's look really quickly at the five
tools that I have you've got the flux
remover to be able to utilize this tool
I would have to place any purple dye and
what this would allow me to do is after
drafting I could return dieted of dice
bag pull another dye from the bag choose
a value of any that I like and place
that obeying all the placement
restrictions I mentioned okay I've got
the cork back straight edge which any
yellow dice in yellow dye can trigger
after drafting I place a dye in a spot
that's not adjacent to another dye so as
I mentioned you before the regular rules
is that every dice every diverse place
has to be adjacent to another this
allows you to break that rule all right
the copper foil burnisher any color
three will allow me access to this which
will allow me to move any one down it's
all
in my window ignoring shade restriction
so as you see here you can move a three
into what would normally only be
available to a one
I have a late skin which is triggered by
any color for where you move exactly two
dice that are already in your window
somewhere else in your window however
they do have to obey placement
restrictions you don't break any rules
there and then finally I've got the
glazing hammer which can be triggered
with any blue dye that allows you to
re-roll all dice in the draft pool but
it can only be used on your second turn
before drafting so it's after you've
placed your first dye in the window you
could trigger this glazing hammer with a
blue dye re-roll the last two and place
those my objectives column color variety
for any columns with no repeated colors
I'll get five points at the end of the
game so potentially I could have 25
points if all five of my columns have no
repeating colors I don't think that's
likely but that's the potential there
then I've got color variety which the
sets of all five colors however many of
those I have I get four points each so
these are the five colors that are
represented on the dice however many of
those sets I get will be 40 so if I had
two complete sets of the font colors I
get eight points for example at the end
of the game and then shades of green
this would be normally my private
objective what this means is that for
every green dye that I place in my
window at the end of the game I'm going
to add up all the number of pips on
those dice and add it to my score so
that's where my scoring comes from my
scoring comes from these cards and I
have to also keep in mind that any open
die spots on my window are going to
count to a negative three in a
multiplayer game you only lose one point
per open spot in the solo game any open
spot is a minus three so you really want
to try to fill this up completely if you
can so you add up the points you gain
from your objective cards you subtract
any open spots and you're going to
pair that to the number of dice here on
the round tracker and that's going to be
your win or loss condition so let's go
ahead and go with the first round I'm
going to pull four dice randomly out of
the bag there we go
all right well unfortunately I got a
very low green which I'm not thrilled
about because I'd like a higher one so
that I can place it on my window and get
some points so what I could do I could
think about using my glazing hammer with
this blue re rolling that green to try
to get and then I can also reroll the
six because potentially if I'm not
placing that it would be going up there
so I think that's what I'm going to
think about doing I'm going to put this
on an outer edge I know I'm going to
want to place a green next so I'll place
it know I can't place here because I
don't want to cover that I don't block
that out let's place it here okay I can
put the green here or here I will put
the two on the glazing hammer all right
re roll these I want a low number red
and a high number green and I want the
exact opposite of what I just saw and
now the red didn't work out for me so I
had a decision to make here do I want to
go ahead and place the red potentially
maybe here and to just put the three up
there that's probably what I'm going to
do because I don't want those six points
working against me so I gave it a shot
it didn't work out I'll place the red
there because it's adjacent to that
first die and I'll put the green up here
all right round two
there we go four guys all right well I'd
like to place the purple because it's a
high-value wouldn't mind getting this
green out there because that would be
three points for me let's go ahead and
place this five here all right
i jus seen Jason see rules are fine
there I will place a three here because
I know
oops that is a three I can't have to put
a two or a four there and that's going
to give five points to my opponents all
right all right let's see here well I'd
like to place both of these so that I
can put the one in the two up there so
why don't I place this three here oops
that is a three I keep moving these
that's a three I could place this three
I don't want to put it here because I
don't want to block myself there I can
place it here and then I'll place the
two and the one up here so I'm keeping
low numbers up there as much as I can
all right you can see how quickly turns
go all right well I don't want to put
that six up there so I'd like to place
the four and the six and put the one in
the two up there and I think I can do
that like so if I put the four here and
if I put the six here I'm still okay I
don't have any repeat colors in my
columns yet so that's kind of nice -
I'll put the two in the one right up
there
for more I which are getting a few more
greens but that's the brakes okay so
I've got two ones a five and a four I
obviously want to play my higher numbers
if possible I can play my four here if
it's that shade restriction and I can
place the five here or here but I don't
want to put it here since I already have
a purple there the other thing I could
do is place the five here and that would
give me four different color dice to
give me that five points there so that's
what I'm going to do place the five
there I don't believe I'm broken any
rules here that two points goes up there
all right we're going to happen to pull
two greens here so it would be lovely to
get both of those especially if they're
high values now I got a five and a three
that's not bad but I do have a six that
I have to deal with okay so that's five
I'd love to place there but I can't I
can't play it here though so I'll put
the five here I think I'm going to go
ahead and place the red six here keep it
off of the opponent's board still
keeping different colors all right put
those six points up they're not ideal
but you know and I haven't been using my
tool that may come back to bite me here
at the end of the game we'll find out I
also need to get some more yellow out
here so that I can get the color variety
bonus all right well I did pull two
yellows all right a three and a one okay
low numbers that's actually I'm okay
with that let's put this yellow three
here
hmm don't want to put that there let me
take a moment can't put the blue three
here all right well yeah I could do this
okay put the yellow three here right
that's that's okay
making sure myself I'm not messing up I
can put this one it's yellow one here
all right
I'm giving up five points but I'm really
hoping that I'm going to be able to get
I'm doing really well with these column
color varieties yet I will see no see
okay
okay some high numbers here so now we
need to think about okay
unfortunately okay well I can put this
green five here that still keeps my
colors alive and it gets a high number
play no I cannot put that green five
there there's a green three right there
not so fast maybe start looking at let's
start looking at so I can place yeah I
think that's what I'm going to do I'm
going to place a group red three here to
use the copper foil burnisher which
allows me oh I'll do that told me I can
move well and really what I want to do I
can place my green three here but I lose
my bonus they're my color bonus I can
place a green five here that may be the
way to go for my first one because that
still keeps this alive doesn't break any
rules I can place my red four here or I
can place a green three here I think I'm
going to do that place the green three
here I won't get the color bonus on this
column
I think I'm okay otherwise play those
seven points up there pull three purples
oops can I drop one okay go scaring away
let me all right well let's see what I
got here purple two can go right there
it's going to lose that color bonus
purple two could also go here but then
I'm closing myself out there and it
would also lose me that bonus there the
red six can go here which would give me
that five points and keep it off of
there so it seems like sure play would
be to put the red six here okay no I
cannot there's a three red three right
there you know you think that would be
obvious you don't I don't always see it
right away sometimes it takes me some
real it really has to be very deliberate
about where i'm bulletyme placing where
i can put the two here I could put the
two there I'd lose my color bonus could
also be looking okay so let's do this
let's use the flux remover after
drafting or turn the dye to the dice bag
and pull once in the back so let's get
this red six out of here put it in the
bag pull a new one
I'd love a green dye because then I
would just place it at the six and put
it right there
hey what do you know I got a green dye I
promise you that that was legit I did
not look so that green dye goes right
there okay and then do I go and just
place that purple to there or I place
the purple to here and get those five
points yeah I think that's why I've got
to do place the purple to there put the
purple three there one more round
all right okay so I Wow
I lucked out because I got a yellow to
here that I can place right there which
is wonderful
oops that was a - you saw it camera
doesn't lie
alright so that yellow - I'm okay here
yes alright now here the red six works
and I get that bonus color there too so
that's pretty fantastic no it does not
work Mike you keep trying - you keep
trying to ignore that red three the
green would work no would not because
you got a green side there so I've got
to find a way maybe there's something I
can do here to play something else
alright can't place a four can't place a
three I can place a yellow that doesn't
help me does not help me that's gonna
hurt because I'm gonna have to place all
of these no I could put the yellow Arden
with the red six right there no I can't
I can't keep trying to put I keep trying
to put a red dice there I died there all
right well that that last one man may
have killed me because let's
double-check can't place that there
because there's yellows can't place this
year because there's a five can't place
this because there's a red three can't
put the yellow here because there's no
way to play something that's not
adjacent to another dye don't have a
three don't have a four so all of these
that's 16
but I just lost right there that that's
going to hurt so let's let's find out
where we're at okay let's find out where
we're at so we're at 8 10 11 14 16 19 22
27 37 47 create for nearly 50 you're
they do 53 points so I've got a beat 53
probably not likely but let's see here
I'll put this on 53 just to remind you
what they got
alright so my points how many column
colors that I get watch let's do this
let's put that 53 right there all right
my points I get one column here of
different variety one column here of
different variety one column here so
that's 15 points all right then green I
get 16 17 18 19 20 - 25 25 and 15 is 40
all right now color variety let's see
what my sets are here I've got green red
blue yellow purple looks like it's going
to be 2 if I'm lucky because I only had
2 blues they're green red blue yellow
and purple so that's going to give me 8
more points so 48 so hey that's that is
actually much closer than I've ever come
before 48 to 53 I feel okay about that
especially since if not for that really
rough last term where I had to give them
16 points I really think I had a chance
there oh you know what nope
I had a missing I did have a missing
spot on my window so let me take three
points off so 45 but still I can live
with 45 that's not too bad as far as I
go now
I potentially you can do better but for
me I feel pretty good with that so
hopefully you got an idea of how the
game is played it's quick it's really
fast turns and easy to setup and
teardown
so sagrada looks like something you
might be interested in you might want to
give this a shot thank you so much have
a great day
you
