TÍTULO: The Game Boy Geek's Allegro (2-min) Review of Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: iZJyGePr6c8
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/144617/sagrada/the-game-boy-geeks-allegro-2-min-review-of-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
this video is brought to you by
Miniature Market thousands of board
games discounted prices
miniaturemarket.com
in sagata you will be building a
beautiful stained glass window with
different colored dice each round you'll
be drafting Dice and a serpentine style
and placing it in your window adjacent
to a die and following color or number
restrictions each game will have a
different set of public goals like
trying to have one of each of the
different colors in a row or having sets
of one or two and so on but you'll also
get a private goal like adding up all
the Pips of a certain color that's on
your board each game there's also
different ways to break rules of the
game and you can activate these by
spending some currency if someone's
already there you got to spend a little
more and it's not as easy as it looks
cuz you cannot place a die of the same
color orthly adjacent to one another or
the same number and after 10 Rounds
scoring is almost entirely made of your
private and the public goals and the
game has a lot of replayability because
there's 24 different card sides that you
can place in here with different amounts
of
[Music]
difficulty hello my friends it's the
Game Boy geek here wow sagata is an
excellent puzzly dice drafting game it's
got simple rules but lots of depth tons
of replayability the puzzle changes
every time your goals change every time
you got the private goals and the public
goals and those are different and then
you got the tools that allow you to
break the rules of the game and those
change every game as well and the easier
board you have the less times you get to
break the rules and vice versa so I love
how it is balanced this is an excellent
excellent excellent Family Style game
puzzly great thing to think about
changes your bra made my brain smoke but
I love it um it the solo game is very
good on the con side analysis paralysis
can become an issue if you have a group
that's prone to that as you're trying to
figure out which dice to draft and the
dice are rounded and small so they flip
a lot when you try to pick them up and
put them down wish they were Square dice
but two minor nit picks the game is
amazing I kept it in my gaming Library
it got a saxophone serenade this video
was sponsored by miniature markets
review Corner the review Corner features
podcasts video and written game reviews
by Gamers for gamers Miniature Market
the online gaming Superstore thousands
of board games discounted prices check
them out at miniaturemarket.com
[Music]
