TÍTULO: The Game Boy Geek Reviews Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: zdxmGpisRg8
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/144618/sagrada/the-game-boy-geek-reviews-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
this video is brought to you by the
market thousands of board games
discounted prices miniature market calm
hello my friends it's the Gameboy geek
here today we're going to be building
beautiful stained glass with the light
coming through glistening through it
just look like a beautiful sight we're
going to be putting each of those panes
and they're glass we're going to decide
which color goes where that's what we're
doing today we're looking at sagrada
this is from floodgate games this is for
one to four players and this is sort of
a puzzle ii styled dice drafting game
with some special abilities let me say
how it's played and i'll see you on the
other side
[Music]
in sagrada you first get to choose one
of these four beautiful glass windows
that you'll be creating you also get to
select one of these grids there's 24
total that you can select from and they
go from difficulty 3 all the way up to 6
you get compensated for the harder ones
but you select one of these you'll
actually place it right into your
stained glass so it looks something like
this once you've inserted and over the
course of the game certain spaces have
either color restrictions as to which
color dye has to go in there or what
they call shade restrictions or which
dye value has to go there each player
will also be given a private gold card
this should be facedown but you need to
look at it this says shades of purple
now for every purple dye I get here I'll
get to add up the sum of the Pips on
those Purple's as a scoring at the end
of the game and everyone's going to have
a different color basically all of these
are all the different colors of the dice
that you'll see in the game everyone
gets one of these also three public
goals will be placed down now it's
actually ten of these in the game but
only three will get used each game
they're randomly selected and this is
how you score throughout the game in
addition to your one private goal that I
just went over here you'll have things
like this which is light shades set one
sets of one and two values of one and
two of any color will get you two points
or every set of those the middle one
says hey a row with no repeated color so
every roll that you have it does not
repeat a color will get you six points
and on the right color diagonal so you
cut the diagonally adjacent same colored
dice they don't have to be the blue or
yellow shown here as long as it is the
same same amount of dice that are the
same color its diagonal you'll get a
point so in this case would be one two
three four five six seven that would be
where seven points in the game if your
board looked like that now how a round
works is there's a bag of dice and the
star player is going to take the amount
of dice that's basically 2 times the
amount of players plus one so if we're
playing with two players I'm going to
pull five dice they're going to roll
those dice and let's say it comes up
like this the first player will be able
to pull the first dye and draft it and
then the second player is going to be
able to pull two in a row and then the
let first player is going to be able to
put a last die they'll be one left over
so always it goes into like a serpentine
Draft where if you get the first choice
you'll also get the last choice so let's
say I pull this purple three now there's
some placement
at the beginning you have to place it on
the edge somewhere but let's say this is
purple I have to put a purple here I
could put it pretty much in any of these
other spot out here I can even put it in
this pot because this needs a three and
this is a three I could not put it here
because this needs a red this is a
purple I could not put it here because
it's a five and this is a three but this
is purple any number I'll place it here
then the other player would select two
dice so let's say the other player
selected two dice and I have two left to
choose from the last player will always
have two to choose from they will select
a dye and place it so this is a four now
whenever you place a dye after the first
diet always has to be adjacent either
up-down left-right or diagonal to at
least one other dye in your window so my
only placement could be here here here
here or here right now this needs to be
a four and so let's say I'll just go
like this because that is a four it's a
good spot
the last dye here would get placed on
this board this essentially is a round
counter so we don't we know what round
one's over the game is only ten rounds
and then the start player would go
clockwise that player would now take the
dye tile bag roll and continue as I just
showed now let's say the player rolled
the dice they took their won and it's my
choice I love this purple six because if
you remember my private goal was to get
every tip on the Purple's was going to
be points for me however you can never
there's placement rules now remember you
have to place a dye a Jason to at least
one die now I would like the places here
because there's a six that I can't why
because you can never place the same
colored dye orthogonal II adjacent to
any dye that's already there so I could
not place this here however I could
place it something like this now if I
want to take this for I could not place
it here because in addition to not being
on place the same color adjacent you can
never place the same number orthogonal
ages to any other die of the same color
so I could not place that so I would
like to take this and since I can't
place it here I would place it maybe
something like that so those are the two
main placement rules in the game now in
addition to those placement rules there
are ways to break those rules each game
there are three tools you'll see those
cards here now there's a random there's
actually 12 of them in a game but you
only use three of them
to do this you can activate these tools
and break the rules of the game for
example after your first turn
immediately drafted I skip your next
turn so if you're you know if you're in
the middle of the round you can take one
die and take another one right away
that's pretty cool
the middle one lens cutter after
drafting a die you can swap the graph to
die with one from the round track as we
showed you earlier pretty cool and the
glazing hammer on the right reroll all
dice in the draft pool this may only be
used on your second turn before drafting
so it's like you know after you've taken
one die now how do you use these well if
I told you in the beginning the cards
that you put into your stained glass are
between 3 & 6 of difficulty for each one
of these spots so this was the easiest
one you would get one of these tokens
now if you're the first person to
activate one of these you place one
there and you get to activate it if
someone else has already gone there
regardless of how many you have to spend
to to go there so you get more rule
breaking abilities with the harder cards
because you'll get more gems now there
are sometimes will you'll make mistakes
you might place the same number or color
next to something that you're not
supposed to and as soon as you see it
you need to immediately remove dice up
to the point where it's no longer
breaking the rules and that will cause
you to have different things open and
squares not filled at the end of the
game like this needs a three but there's
a three here well I'm out of luck so
sometimes you'll have some empty squares
but at the end of the game you'll look
at all of the public goals and you'll
start to score so the first one here is
the colored diagonals so I could have
one two three four five six these are
all touching diagonal it's six points
this one one two three so now we're at
nine two more at 11 two more at 13 two
more at 15 15 points on just this card
that looks pretty good this makes one of
six points for every row that I have
that have different colors in them and
it's just this row with that six points
and now if I went from 15 to 21 then we
look at each set of 1 & 2 so here I have
three ones and three twos so I have
three full sets so 3 times 2 is 6 add
that to my 21 I have 27 then you would
flip over your private goal and we'd add
up all of the pips add up all the purple
and then I have a total score of 50 at
this point you'd then subtract a point
for each empty spot to a 49
and you'd get a point for each of those
favorite tokens that you didn't use
let's say I had one left over my points
would be 50 and whoever has the most is
the winner now there is a solo version
of the game you use one private go to
public goals and anywhere between one in
five tools the more tools the easier it
is for you each turn you draft four dice
and roll them as normal then you take
two turns either placing die it dice
into your window as normal or spending a
die and or sending a die on one of these
tools but there's no favorite tokens in
this version you'll use whatever is on
the top left of the cart so I can
activate this with any red die with a
blue die or five so I could put this
here activate this do what this tool
says and then the die and the card are
out of the game for the rest it's a
one-time use for my second term maybe I
put this into my window all the
remaining dice go on here at the end of
the game you're going to add up all
hundred pips on these dice and you have
to beat that score to win all right well
there is Sagrada first of all Wow unique
theme how often have you heard about a
game about making stained-glass windows
I like unique themes this one works well
it's actually quite somatic I love the
components man that those big windows
that you get in the way you slide the
little card in they're just a really
cool touch I really like the overall
look and feel of this game now this game
is a puzzle game and I typically love
puzzle a style games anything that
reminds me of putting together a puzzle
or some logic and deducing or anything
like that I typically tend to love those
style games this game really hit all
cylinders for my brain from a puzzle II
aspect there's just a different puzzle
to solve every time you play it because
there's different boards so you have a
different card just twenty-four
different ones and depending on the
difficulty you know you take a different
thing you know you get easier ways to
break the rules of the game so you have
the different replayability of the
different boards twenty-four different
one then you have the different specials
private abilities then you have all the
different public goals that can be
randomly assigned so this game has a ton
of replayability built in and I love the
puzzle to solve here the dice drafting
is awesome it's fun to to drop the dice
you want you get excited there's some
tension there there's also some room for
some hate drafting where hey it's like
down to
you and there's just one other player
after you you've got you know a few guys
to choose from and you're looking for
Matt you're going okay I could really
use this one or this one
that person really needs this one I'm
going to take it and you know really
screw them over and it can be mean but
it was a fun aspect of a game of dice
tracting even though it's serpentine
works really well I like the way that
that worked there but overall the puzzle
the puzzle was awesome the drafting was
awesome I really like that aspect and
even know what a 17 draft you know it's
a even if you were first I like that I
kind of like a fantasy football draft
growing everywhere hey you get first
pick and you better make it you know pay
because you're going to get the last
choice afterwards I really think that
works well and how it goes around the
table works well as well I love that
aspect of the private and public goals
in any game I always love it when
there's private goals that nobody knows
about and then as public goals of course
in this game the private goals are
always just the colors of the dice and
so it's pretty obvious to kind of look
at what people are going for and you can
usually tell which a private goal
they're going for and try to again draft
so that they don't get those bigger
numbers for those colors but I love how
you have the private goal the public
goals at the same time trying to work
those together I also love those tools
so the tools to break the rules of the
game it's such a clever thing that
there's there's I think there's ten of
them or so and then you get only three
of them each game and they change each
game so again more replayability and you
get to use those those tools to really
break the rules and I love how it's
balanced with how difficult your board
was so if you have the easy board and
you only have three of those those
tokens you're probably going to be able
to get one maybe two of those things
done if you're if you know you'll get
two of them done if you got there quick
and so I like that aspect someone who
took a really hard board needs to be
able break the rules more so they're
getting six of those so they can even go
to one of e to the three of them and
even be last to each of those three and
still be able to get them done I think
that's a really cool mechanism in this
game I really liked it I really liked
the solo version of this game as well
I'm not typically too big of a solo
player but one Saturday morning you know
after I got the game just kind of
playing with it when I think it works it
is hard though I've played this
probably seven times and I'm yeah I've
yet to beat it I mean it's really hard
because you're trying to add up the
number of dice versus you know the
scoring on the dice versus that's a good
solo game although it's very hard any
cause on this well analysis paralysis
can become an issue here especially
during a dice drafting phase because it
early in the face when there's a lot of
dice out there if you're playing with a
lot of players for players let's just
say there's a lot of dice to be getting
first or second player then sometimes if
they have analysis processes can drag
the game a little bit wasn't enough to
really you know make me not like the
game or like it lesson but just be
knowing that if you player players that
typically have an ounce prowess you want
to be wary of that
I limit to from a production standpoint
I love the dice I love how they're sort
of translucent I loved how they fit
perfectly the only problem is they're
small and they're rounded edges and so a
lot of times you'll go to pick up a die
and it will just like flip on you and
this happened quite often so after a
while you just get used to it you look
at the number and you're looking at the
number and you you're remembering it as
you pull it so if it does flip then when
you're putting in the board sometimes it
flips I wish they maybe would have done
square dice with square edges so it
wouldn't flip it is easily but again a
small on a minor nitpick of the two
cause I found in this game this game's
amazing - love it love it love it simple
rules great depth great replayability
changes every game love it so much and
I'm keeping in my gaming library so
let's conduct it properly with a
saxophone serenade this did you respond
to buy miniature market review corner
the review corner features podcasts
video and written game reviews by gamers
for gamers miniature market the online
gaming superstore thousands of board
games discounted prices check them out
at miniature Market calm
[Music]
you
