TÍTULO: The Art, Design, and Player Experience of Sagrada by Floodgate Games | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: 4UUxnrQ2w14
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/163767/sagrada/the-art-design-and-player-experience-of-sagrada-by
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
I found over the years that my taste of
games have changed a bit when I first
got into games I loved dudes on a map I
loved duking it out with my friends
awesome miniatures just fighting across
great maps I loved it I still do but
then over some time I really just heard
liking really heavy euros the great
mechanisms really trying to figure out
these puzzles always losing to my wife
who's great at these games but I'm
terrible at them but she's great at them
it's fine and now as of late I've really
enjoyed games that can pull out in an
evening just before bedtime they're
really easy to learn really easy to play
but they still give me that great
feeling of thinking hard and still
enjoying that debt that way it is my
brain one game that's done this lately
is sagrada by floodgate games fun
components fun gameplay a fun puzzle to
figure out i'm jacob russell and this is
the gamer curator this game was designed
by adrian adam SQ and darrell andrews
the art and graphic design was done by
peter wolken you've seen some of his
work before trust me I'll put a link
down in the description so you can see
some of his other work this game was
fantastic the artwork is great and so is
a graphic design let's talk about it
looking here you can see how great the
artwork really is so many colors such
bright vibrant colors that really brings
your attention in you can't walk past it
without seeing it right it's just like
huh Sagrada it's just boom it's great
now this does bring up a conversation
though about the importance of Art and
Design and board games there's this
piece here the stained glass player
board and your actual card that goes
that's inserted into it okay now I love
this I think it's fun I think it's
clever and it gives a good look and feel
to the game as you're playing it it
really adds to that experience of
playing it now here's the thing though
it's completely superfluous it really is
the game can be played with just this
card and be just fine but here's what it
does the art brings the game theme to
life and I know this isn't like the most
exciting theme but I love stained glass
windows a lot of people do love stained
glass windows
it's such a unique seam and the art
helps portray this and helps and helps
move that theme along but really what it
does is adds to the player experience
and so let's talk about that one thing I
love about the experience of this game
is the visual aspects of it and how you
interact with those now true I did talk
about it before and these are a bit
superfluous but what they do is they
give you that tactile response placing
the the small beautiful dice in these
squares here it just feels great and it
gives that tactile response that's so
great in games right moving miniatures
around rolling dice these things that
have you interact with the game play and
become involved with it and that's one
thing I think this actually does and so
while it may seem superfluous to others
I see its importance and I see its value
in this game one thing I love about this
game are the puzzle aspects to it I love
trying to figure out where to place the
dice how to make sure everything can fit
I love that sometimes you feel this
anguish over not being able to fill your
your board completely because you made
an error and you see that error you're
like what was I thinking and you
actually like have this anguish about it
and I love when a game does that such a
simple premise but it's such a great way
to bring you into the game and to make
it memorable and to make you want to
play again this is not a long game right
you can teach it in five minutes and
play it and you'll want to play it again
right after to see how you can do better
one thing I love about this game is the
variability I love the different tools
you can use how to implement those tools
into your strategy which changes every
time because the the dice available to
you change every turning you're still
trying to figure out this puzzle and
it's not different it's not the same
game every time and I absolutely love
that one thing I loved about this
experience was how deep the gameplay
really is I love when a game has simple
mechanisms and seems simple at first but
once you get into it you're trying to
figure out this puzzles you're trying to
wrack your brain around the best way to
do this while everyone else is trying to
do the same thing and I love when a game
can can bring people in and do that and
cause people to be interested and
engaged on everybody's turn because
you're you're sitting there you're
thinking no please don't take that dice
I need that
I need those dice please don't take it
and they take it like crap what am I
supposed to do now and you throw it and
you throw a fit and you're like I always
supposed to have those dice okay I don't
do that I'm very calm calm player I
whined a bit sometimes I get ye it's
fine
overall as you can tell I love this game
of the experience you have trying to
figure out the puzzles trying to see how
you can block other people and they
don't block you and you're trying to see
exactly what you can do to create the
best puzzle that you can to solve that
that puzzle I love when a game does art
works so well and has gameplay to
support that artwork where it's
integrated where it's not just bling it
doesn't just look good but it actually
plays well and I love that I love how
easy it is to teach how easy it is to
show friends and to show them the
excitement that board games can bring I
love entry level games like this super
fun that's sagrada by floodgate games
i'm jacob russell and this is the gamer
curator thank you so much for watching
as always please reach out to me
wherever you can on the comments below
social media i'm at - the gamer curator
and of course please subscribe to our
channel so you can get notified when
sweet-sweet videos like this get
published thanks
