TÍTULO: The Gateway Guy reviews Sagrada | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: NbIkubtxYRQ
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/170435/sagrada/the-gateway-guy-reviews-sagrada
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
hi my name's Andrew and I'm a real key
gateway gamer get regimes of one of
those games are gonna get people
interested in the Hobby so if you're new
to game or if you just got friends that
you want to introduce to the Hobby stay
tuned and let's see what's coming to the
table in this week's gateway guys this
week we're all gonna be drafted as
artisans and craftsmen as we visit the
world's most amazing churches creating
the most beautiful windows possible in
sagrada so grab there is a 2 to 4 player
drafting game created by Adam Adam ESCO
and Daryl Andrews it was originally a
Kickstarter game but now it's published
by flood gear games
let's see how it plays in sagrada you're
gonna be trying to fill your window with
as many different dice as you possibly
can
there are 90 in the whole game and to
complete your window you need 20 of them
the difficulty comes into play see for a
six yellow could not go next to a six of
any other color that's orthogonal it and
a yellow cannot go next to another
yellow even if it is a different number
follow those rules of placement and
through a clever drafting technique
where we take the number of players
times up by two and add one to get a
pool of seven dice for a three play
again we'd roll the dice play a wonder
roll of ticks first choice then player 2
and player 3 followed by player three
player 2 and player one when the
remaining dice being placed on the round
track this way of drafting gets tons of
people sat there saying please don't
take the what I'm after please I say
that yellow for there's only a yellow
three that will complete my board please
doctor and of course the other player
will always tell yellow three it's a
really interesting way to introduce some
player interaction in a game that could
really be a solitaire puzzle and there
is a solo version of this game included
hopefully by the end of the game your
board will look something like this a
completed window hopefully following all
of the different rules
it is always key to go back and have a
little check for example here my green
fall is in between two other Falls so
that would be removed from the game but
for the sense of this I'm just gonna
flip that to a to a completed board is
then checked against the public
objectives for example here for every
row with different colors I would score
6 points and I'd manager on each row
they are combined with your private
objectives for me I'd have shades of
blue so I get a point for every blue
pick dice so six points at four points
at one point at five points we combine
all those together add a little glass
beads a point for each one of those that
you didn't use for craftsmen's help such
as after drafting flip the die to the
opposite side you'll get a total and the
player with the most points or win the
master art as an award and become the
champion of sagrada so there we have it
that's Segura a fantastic game of dice
drafting on window crafting
again that will get the whole family
involved it's simple enough for kids to
pick up no matching colors next to each
other no matching numbers next to each
other
follow the rules on the card it's as
simple as that those simple rules mix
with some amazing tension as you're
praying that nobody takes that one dice
that will complete your window the bag
and you forwards and backwards please
don't say that now I probably know
what's it one that you need later all
sorts of interaction involved completed
windows are extremely satisfying at the
end and overall i'd give this kid a
fantastic 9 out of 10 for a gateway game
that's been our first episode of the
gallery guy hope you've enjoyed it I
hope you've seen a game maybe that you
already knew a little bit about and
wanted to know more about oh and you
game to you either way don't forget
gateway games are the greatest games
