TÍTULO: Video Review | Video | BoardGameGeek
ID: N6Kow5ZAYWY
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/video/149589/sagrada/video-review
IDIOMA DETECTADO: en
TRANSCRIPCIÓN:
Sakurada this is a game that I've been
wanting to play for a while people have
been sharing pictures of this game from
online from quite a while I keep seeing
them on Facebook and Twitter I'm like
darn how do you how do you get how did
you get that game because as far as I
know it wasn't released yet I saw that
they had copies Gen Con 2017 I run to
the booth of the publisher to get one
and by the time I got there he was sold
out already so what I did was to order a
copy and finally my copy arrived I've
been playing it last week I play without
friends I played it in my seven-year-old
daughter everybody loves this game I can
really tell you my endorsement will be
very enthusiastic this is a great game
and I'm glad that I finally got to plate
in this game you allegedly are building
stained-glass windows for the Sagrada
família it's a fairly after game but it
has very beautiful components and also
the game is aesthetically pleasing not
just a little the components but the
level the composition the rules will
make you place the components in
patterns that as you will see will be
very aesthetically satisfying each
player uses a board such as this one the
top is not strictly necessary but it
looks great this is the play area that
you really want to look at each player
receives the two of these cards randomly
at the beginning of the game each card
is double-sided so you have four
patterns to choose from and the patterns
are not all the same they have different
levels of difficulty as indicated by the
number of dots here at the bottom the
more dots the harder is the pattern and
suppose I decided to play this pattern
here to balance the fact that some
patterns on harder when you select one
you take a number of tokens from this
bag equal to the number of dots that you
have there so here for example I have
five tokens and during the game you can
use these tokens to perform special
actions so the harder the pattern the
more
extra tools you have to complete it once
you select your pattern you slide it
inside inside your board here and voila
now during the game you will place size
in these windows here and you can play
any dye any color any number in areas
with the white background but only dyes
with a matching number nails with the
number and dyes with a matching color in
areas that have a color in the
background also each player receives a
car from the stack you shuffle it and
then you give each card example layer
that indicates a color that to will
score for that play the end of the game
at the end of the game you will be able
to score the sum of the values on the
purple dyes that you have on your board
it could be red dyes it could be yellow
but the secret objective that you have
lets you score the pips each point
indicated on a dye in your play area at
the end of the game there are also
public objectives they come from the
stack you shuffle it and you draw three
randomly face-up and these will indicate
how players can score during the game
one of the ways the other one is the
private objective for example if these
are the three cars that we have this
chart you are gonna score a number of
points equal to the diagonally adjacent
dyes that have the same color pretty
much like indicated here if I had this
pad on the end of the game of score one
two three four five six seven points
because of this objective here if this
is employee is a public objective you're
gonna score six point for each row that
you have in which you have no dice of
the same color it's two points for each
set of three and for anywhere five
points four rows with no repeated values
and so on and so forth so there will be
three of such
cards available for players to take into
account finally something else that we
can use during the game more resources
tools so we shuffled these cards and we
place three cards face up during the
game at the beginning of the game you
ignore this die here it is this symbol
here on the top left corner it is only
used in the solo variant not doing the
multiplayer game and the sullivan by the
way it's pretty fun that's surprisingly
fun and also pretty tough these tools
will be available they have different
effects if you want you can pause and
read what the effect is during the game
what you can do is to use these effects
by spending one of these tokens so you
spend at oh can you say I'm gonna use
that effect under spent at the toe can
use that effect that's how it is now the
core of the game revolves around dice
and you have this nice bag full of
beautiful shiny dies there's 90 of them
that's quite impressive at the beginning
of each turn a player takes the bag and
draws and rolls a number of dice equal
to two times the number of players plus
one so we to play your five dice with
three players seven dice suppose that we
have two players so we draw seven for
here one two three more we roll them and
then starting with the first player the
first player can take can draft can take
a die and place it on their board and or
take an action then the next play will
go the next play will go and then each
play takes a second turn in opposite
order so third player your second play
your first player that means and in most
of what you will be doing is to take
dice from the poll that you're the first
player you're gonna pick first and last
second play your second and second to
last and so on and so forth so when I
take a die I place it on my board again
remember the restriction that
she knew that has to do with the
background there's also another type of
restriction here 408 for that's good
alright another restriction is that I
cannot place well actually before we
talk about that the first time that you
place has to be on the edge of the board
other dyes have to be adjacent to that
one and they have to be adjacent
orthogonal or diagonally diagonally is
perfectly legal I have a five year and
for example I do that and that is
connected but right now I wouldn't be
able to play a diet there because it
wouldn't be connected with my initial
formation but maybe I want to apply a
dozen stat so and I have this die so I
can put it here
I got perfectly legal restriction you
have to follow the instructions on the
background also you cannot place two
dice or toggle early if they have the
same value this purple here may match
the background but I cannot place it
there because these are totally adjacent
to another five and this green here and
we place it here because it is white
background but I cannot actually place
it there because now I am I have two
dyes that were talking I that have the
same color so a diagonal is okay but our
token aliyou cannot have two dyes next
to each other that have the same color
or the same value that means for example
that this would not be a good idea to
place a five here because then it can
not place any dye here because if I want
to place that here has to be a five and
it plays one adjacent there which is a
five so I cannot place anything in there
but I could do this and then maybe I
could do this and so on and so forth but
no more than two dyes per turn since the
number of dice is twice the players plus
one and each player you usually will
take two diesem there will be at least
one dye leftover it can be more players
have passed they died it is left over
after each player took two turns is
placed on the turn track so that also is
a good reminder
trans players have played and how many
are still there maybe in a turn we have
more than one die that has been left
behind because a player passed or
something and there also what is also
interesting is that their game effects
that allow you to swap dice from the
pool of available dice to the turn track
so that is also why the train track is
very important you continue like this
drafting dice from the bag rolling them
getting them and placing them on your
board following all the restrictions
using tools occasionally trying to place
as many guys as possible and to fulfill
as many public objectives as possible
and to get a lot of high values in the
color of your secret objective continue
like this until the end of the 10th
round the game is over players score
points from the public objectives from
their secret objective each token that
they still have is worth one point at
the end of the game of the play at that
point the player with the highest total
is the winner of the game sagrada is a
spectacular game it looks amazing and
gameplay is just as amazing i mean looks
so great that almost i was thinking a
game please not so good I have all these
nice dice I'll do something with that
but then gameplay is absolutely so fun
it's so simple to learn and yet so
interesting so full of nice puzzles nice
decisions that you have to make you will
start by thinking about your display of
course that's your main focus of
attention what you're trying to maximize
try to get certain dice without
committing too much to certain
situations that that will be hard to get
out of if I have a spot in the middle
maybe it's a certain color a nice around
little dice with a lot of value say one
three five and four now there are many
dice that they can place in there so if
I could place for one so be great or for
twos but of course a lot of other
considerations so a lot of different
things that you have to take into
account as you're filling your display
try to fill out the mandated spaces if
you can
leave the blank spaces for later so that
whatever you got in the late game you
can still fill it you can still fit it
in or you have better chances of doing
so and this is enough interesting enough
on top of that you probably will start
booking other people's this place and
your sir realizing look how my friend is
in love with blue all of a sudden I
guess that is their objective and that
it's important it's important because
those secret objectives can be very
powerful
you may even had the impression that
they are too swingy that if I get three
sixes in my collar that gives me 18
points that's a huge bonus may even win
me the game and from time to time might
happen but I don't think that that will
be enough of a factor to swing the game
in a direction rather than another in
many games if the players know what
they're doing either place are aware of
that then as soon as I used to get a
sense of why you're getting a six in
that thing which may not be ideal for
you or maybe good enough then I want to
get fives and sixes in that color if
it's possible for me I want to try to
take them from you so when players are
aware of that I don't think that is as
much of a problem at all
and actually like the other challenge
that comes society from that if I do my
thing and ignore you I may be in a good
position but I may be overlooking ways
of preventing your success then that
could be available to me otherwise so I
like the challenge that you have you and
the dice and then also interact with
other players again what I take is also
related to what I leave on the table so
are two things may be more or less equal
to me then I decide to take one just
because the one that I leave to you is
not nearly as appealing to you
it is a game doll though you're not
attacking each other with mortars
platoons or air bombardments has a lot
of eating director can have a lot of
indirect interaction and the problem
that probably are thinking about well
how about analysis paralysis that is
always possible with their own people
and with games that have perfect
information but you do not have 20
options
you take into account every round the
number of dyes that you have is that one
and if you are the third of the fourth
layer by then you have a small number of
dyes and you're gonna take two so that
also relieves the pressure a little bit
so the pool of options that you had to
consider is not large and that helps
with analysis process or say how's
preventing Liza's paralysis but it is
still large enough that it is
interesting to get to try to solve the
puzzle in the later game when you're
committed to certain patterns and you do
not have many open options then amasses
process is almost impossible when you
realize that there is only one dye that
you can fit you can still choose to pass
because maybe that fits but not as
beautiful as you would want it to be
you're still hoping that another time
may fit better and create other
opportunities but still as the game
progresses and opportunities Andy and
arranger opportunities narrows again you
have fewer choices that you can make and
that hang in house weeds we prevent the
analysis paralysis but yet at the same
time the game doesn't feel trivial
doesn't feel like on autopilot you're
still have to make those decisions which
are still very important and very
interesting and at the end if you get
stuck at three turns from the end your
lies that it's hard to place almost
anything well you're only one person to
blame and he's not your best friend
unless you consider yourself to be your
best friend because of course that is
the outcome of the decisions that you
made early on in the game if you find
yourself without decisions to make then
well you need to reconsider your
strategy I don't think it is something
that is intrinsic to the design I like
the fact that the game again can be
taken different levels we develop little
commitment it can be like a beer and
pretzel games you're playing with your
Uncle John that has come to visit and
you're drinking pretzels anything beer
or approaching those two food things in
the opposite way and you're just
chatting and you're placing dyes there
your planes and support sub-optimally
but the game will still work the game is
still happening in support of
complicated games all the moving parts
that you have to pay attention to what
you're doing you can play tasks just
that casually again many of you are
probably horrified by me saying this but
hey it is your game you bought it use it
any way you want
and if you want to use it casually were
thinking about something else and
updating your Facebook that is your
pirata you can do so but you can take
the game very seriously play it with
deeper layers that take is just as
seriously and the game then that exudes
we depth and we pleasant puzzles to
solve that is I would almost say you can
play as casual almost as as hardcore as
you want it to be you can play with the
vast range of people again with
completely casual gamers we non-gamers
at all with very serious about players
with young folks I play to doing my
seven-year-old daughter Amelia she
spectacular I can't win against her to
save my life for that she's very good at
this game also I must say I don't have
the sense that I'm particularly good
because it looks like answer and I lose
against my adult friends but maybe a
testament to how good this game is that
I always want to play it more although I
seem to lose almost every time it is
just so fun the mental flow that it gets
me into is absolutely captivating the
beauty of interacting with these
components the patterns and the merger
just visually pleasant and the rules of
course will encourage you to create
certain patterns
precisely because the college can now be
orthogonal II adjacent then you cause a
spread you spread the colors around the
nice patterns with a variety a lot of
alternating colors it's beautiful to me
that's that's one of those cases with
the rules of the game can also work as
an aesthetic principle as almost as a
compositional blueprint that that places
the components on the board in certain
patterns that on top of creating
interesting game
decisions also result in pleasing
arrangements of components it's a game
that plays beautifully that is beautiful
that you can play with a ton of people
to me this is a a new gateway classic a
thing that in no time at all this will
be up there on the Olympus of the
gateway games together with pandemic
Ticket to Ride Carcassonne Catan and
definitely I would play this one any
night of the week
over over cap an Ticket to Ride a plate
as a gateway game this one I could place
a gateway game I can play with the
serious committed gamers I can play it
any time because it is just so darn fun
so darn beautiful and rewarding very
satisfying segrada highly recommended in
my opinion a new modern classic in the
making
